Kidnap victim talks about boyfriend - Wichita Falls Times Record News
(TX) - May 1, 2018 - page A3
May 1, 2018 | Wichita Falls Times Record News (TX) | Patrick Johnston | Page A3

Never did Kaylea Butts imagine something she thought was a practical joke by her manager would
turn into a high-speed chase in North Texas and end with her being stabbed 13 times and her
boyfriend being fatally shot by state troopers.

T he 20-year-old Norman, Oklahoma, woman said she'd just gotten to one of her two jobs –
Walden Cleaners, 1211 36th Ave. NW in Norman – around 7:25 a.m. on April 26.

Suddenly, she felt someone come up behind her. At first, she figured it was her manager joking
around with her.

Based on a 911 emergency call made by her manager, it clearly was anything but a joke.

As Kaylea arrived, the manager reportedly heard the kidnapping incident begin outside her
business, as she was completing the morning bank deposit.

"I heard a little bit of kind of a commotion or screaming, but I didn't think anything of it," the
manager told the Norman police dispatch. "She never came inside. I just went out there to get her
out of her car."

She went to Kaylea's vehicle, a silver Toyota SUV. Her purse was in her car, but Kaylea was
nowhere to be found.

"I'm kind of a little nervous about this," the manager told Norman dispatch.

Anthony Lamar Carter, who Kaylea had been in a two-year relationship with, had come up behind
Anthony Lamar Carter
her and told her that he had something to show her, Kaylea told the Times Record News in a
phone interview Monday from her OU Medical Center hospital bed.

She said he shoved her in to his vehicle – a red Dodge Charger – and drove away.

Kaylea said Monday she's thankful that the manager called police to report the incident.

"I probably wouldn't be here today" if she hadn't called, Kaylea said. However, Kaylea said
"everything seemed fine" as they began driving.

She'd been trying to leave the relationship, which she described as "not healthy."

T he pair had been having legal issues surrounding domestic violence, but Kaylea said she wasn't
sure if any criminal charges had ever been filed against Carter.

According to a records check, Carter only had one previous criminal offense – a traffic violation for
going 94 miles per hour in a 70 mph zone on June 23, 2015.

Kaylea said she didn't realize just how wrong everything was that day until they got near the T exas-
Oklahoma border.

"He said I basically have killed him inside," she said. "He didn't want to live anymore."

At that point, Kaylea got a glimpse at Carter's phone, which showed they wouldn't arrive to their
destination until after 1 p.m. despite leaving Norman around 7:30 a.m.

Kaylea said she thinks they were headed toward the Newcastle area, but she wasn't certain where
he was trying to take her. She knew that he was from Moore, Oklahoma.

When Burkburnett police spotted the vehicle shortly after it crossed into T exas, Kaylea said she
became nauseous and asked to get out of the vehicle.

Rather than stopping, Carter led law enforcement on a high-speed chase across two North T exas
counties. He also demanded Kaylea put her seat belt back on when she begged to be let out of the
vehicle.

"I didn't want to be involved in a high-speed chase," Kaylea said.

Eventually, after a spike strip deflated his tires enough, Carter pulled the vehicle over a few miles
east of Vernon. Kaylea said she took the chance to run for assistance toward the pursuing T exas
Department of Public Safety troopers.

As she fled toward the seemingly safety of law enforcement, she was tackled by Carter, who
reportedly began stabbing her with a large knife.

Kaylea said Monday that she has 13 stab wounds – including in her thigh; torso; head; and her right
arm, which was heavily bandaged in a Facebook Live video she posted around 11 a.m. Sunday from
her hospital bed to update people on her condition.

"I walked today," Kaylea said in the live video. "T hank you for praying for me – and keeping me in
your thoughts."

Kaylea said Monday that she can still recall the moment she heard the shots that ultimately might
have saved her life.

"I just kind of looked back, and he had his eyes open staring at me," Kaylea said.

Carter was pronounced dead at the scene a few miles east of Vernon.

Kaylea was rushed to Wilbarger General Hospital in Vernon for initial treatment, and later airlifted
to the OU Medical Center with what was described as "serious injuries."

Her mother, Kelly Butts, said Kaylea has made "tremendous progress" in the past four days.

Kelly also said that Kaylea's doctor in Vernon has kept up with the family, including via video calls, to
see how she is healing, calling the Vernon hospital staff "very sweet people."

Despite everything she's been through, Kaylea said she still loves and misses Carter.

"I miss my boyfriend, but he was a bad person," Kaylea said in the Facebook Live video, beginning
to tear up. "But, I still miss him and I love him. I want his family to know that I didn't mean for this
to happen, because I know it hurts."

In a comment tagging Carter's parents, Kaylea apologizes to his family for what happened.

"I love you guys and I'm so so sorry... You've got no idea how hurt I feel," the comment stated. "I
miss you guys and hope to see you guys soon. I want to make it to Lamar's funeral if you guys are
doing that. Hope to hear from you guys soon."

She said Monday that she still hasn't heard from Carter's family, but she does still hope to go to his
funeral.

Kelly asked for everyone to continue praying for her daughter, who she said will need lots of
emotional healing in addition to recovery from her physical wounds.

T he family feels "very blessed" that everything turned out the way it did, because Kelly said it "could
have gone very differently" if the manager hadn't called or police hadn't seen Carter.

For those wishing to donate to help with Butts' medical expenses, the family has set up a
GoFundMe page at https://www.gofundme.com/kayleas -medical-bills.

© 2018 Journal Media Group

 