Trooper honored with national award - Wichita - Wichita Falls Times
Record News (TX) - March 28, 2019 - page A6
March 28, 2019 | Wichita Falls Times Record News (TX) | Patrick Johnston | Page A6

A Texas Department of Public Safety trooper who serves the Wichita Falls area has been honored
as the International Association of Chiefs of Police's trooper of the year, according to a press
release.

T he IACP and Motorola Solutions recognize state troopers and provincial police each year "who
have demonstrated bravery, courage, leadership and professionalism."

Corporal Joshua Moer represented the southern region, and was one of four finalists honored
earlier this week at the IACP's annual Division Midyear meeting.

"Men and women in state and provincial police agencies know the situations they face can change
in an instant, yet they continue to put their lives on the line to help keep their communities safe,"
said Jim Mears, senior vice president, North America Market, Motorola Solutions.

"Motorola Solutions humbly recognizes the brave efforts of our four finalists and the sacrifices
made by all law enforcement."

Moer was announced as the winner earlier this week following the IACP's meeting.

On April 26, 2018, Anthony Lamar Carter
Oklahoma. A 911 call from Butts' boss gave a description of the possible vehicle.

Anthony Lamar Carter reportedly kidnapped Kaylea Renee Butts in Norman,

An alert was sent out to local law enforcement as far as the Texas border as police began
investigating the kidnapping.

Carter was stopped in Oklahoma, the release states, but he quickly sped away, prompting a multi-
jurisdictional pursuit.

Once Carter and Butts hit the Texas border, an officer from Burkburnett recognized the car – a red
Dodge Charger – as the possible suspect vehicle in the kidnapping.

A pursuit involving numerous law enforcement agencies around the Wichita Falls area ensued,
reaching speeds of nearly 150 miles per hour and lasting for about 35 miles.

Near the conclusion of the pursuit, the release states that Moer of the Texas Highway Patrol was
the lead unit.

As Carter's vehicle came to a stop after officers spiked the vehicle's tires, Butts exited the vehicle in
an attempt to escape. He immediately got out of the vehicle, chased and tackled her to the

ground, and began violently stabbing her with a large knife.

Moer discharged his duty pistol at Carter, briefly delaying the attack, the release stated.

DPS Trooper Aaron Clopton arrived at the scene to assist, and advanced with Moer toward Carter,
giving verbal commands for him to stop.

When Carter refused to comply and continued stabbing Butts, More and Clopton discharged their
firearms, "ultimately ending the suspect's attack."

Moer had discharged his duty pistol 11 times, striking Carter with each round. After determining
the suspect was no longer a threat, Moer ran over to Butts and started providing first aid to her.

Clopton ran back to his patrol car to retrieve his first aid kit and call for medical assistance.

Moer, Clopton and several other first responders provided first aid to the victim until emergency
medical personnel arrived and transported her to the hospital. Butts had 13 stab wounds and lost
about five pints of blood.

"Due to the quick and decisive actions of Corporal Moer to stop the suspect's assault on Ms. Butts
and the immediate first aid provided to her, Ms. Butts survived the aggravated assault," the
release stated. "Corporal Moer displayed leadership and courageousness, which saved the life of
Ms. Butts."

During a trip back to Wichita Falls to thank the troopers who saved her live, Butts and her parents
expressed eternal thanks and gratitude for their actions that fateful day.

T he troopers were quick to humbly accept the kind words and appreciation of the family while also
minimizing their roles, saying they'd just been doing their jobs and it wasn't anything anyone other
law enforcement officer would have done in the same situation.

"But, they did it. T hat's it," said Kelly Butts, Kaylea's mother. "T hey were her guardian angels."

© 2019 Journal Media Group

 