Grand jury doesn't charge troopers - They shot man - Wichita Falls
Times Record News (TX) - May 25, 2018 - page A3
May 25, 2018 | Wichita Falls Times Record News (TX) | Linda Stewart | Page A3

A Wilbarger County Grand Jury found no fault with two Texas Department of Public Safety troopers
that shot and killed Anthony Lamar Carter
Butts, outside of Vernon, T exas, on April 26, 2018.

Anthony Lamar Carter as he was in the act of stabbing his girlfriend, Kaylea

According to 46th Judicial District Attorney Staley Heatly, the troopers' actions saved the life of
Kaylea Butts.

"Without a doubt these troopers saved Kaylea's life," Heatly said. "If they had arrived at the scene
even a few seconds later, she wouldn't have made it out alive.

"T his was a domestic violence case, plain and simple. Kaylea was trying to leave the relationship
with Carter and he did not want to let her go. Statistics show that women in abusive relationships
are in the most danger when they are trying to leave their abuser. T hat is exactly what happened in
this case."

Around 7:25 a.m. on April 26, law enforcement in Norman, Oklahoma, received a report of a
possible kidnapping involving Carter, 22, and his 20-year-old girlfriend, Butts.

T he reporting person gave a description of Carter and the vehicle that he was driving.

Around 8:30 a.m., police in Burkburnett were notified that the victim and Carter were possibly
traveling to T exas.

A short time later, a Burkburnett police officer spotted the suspect vehicle, a red Dodge Charger,
being driven through the city. Carter refused to stop for police and eventually turned on to U.S.
Highway 287 North.

Multiple law enforcement agencies were involved in the pursuit that reached speeds in excess of
150 miles per hour.

DPS Trooper Curtis West successfully deployed spikes east of Vernon on U.S. Highway 287,
disabling Carter's vehicle and causing it to stop on the shoulder.

As the car came to a rest, Butts jumped out and started running towards police. Carter tackled her
and began stabbing her repeatedly with a steak knife as the DPS troopers arrived on the scene.

T he troopers got out of their cars and engaged Carter, shooting him several times while he was in
the act of stabbing the victim.

"T he troopers had to make a quick decision," Heatly said. "It was either his life or hers."

Heatly said the victim was stabbed a total of thirteen times all over her body. He credited the same
DPS troopers that shot Carter with providing quick and effective first aid to Butts until Vernon EMS
arrived at the scene to transport her to Wilbarger General Hospital.

"T hese officers transitioned within a matter of seconds from engaging Carter to providing critical
first aid for Kaylea," Heatly said. "T he troopers held Kaylea's hand, comforted her, and bandaged
her wounds while awaiting for emergency medical services."

Intimate partner violence is a significant problem across the United States and in T exas.

Statistics show that more than one in three Texas women has been a victim of family violence.

Rates of family violence have increased significantly in the last few years, according to T exas
Department of Public Safety statistics.

More than half the country's mass shootings between 2009 and 2016, in which at least four people
were killed with a gun, were related to domestic or family violence, according to a study by
Everytown for Gun Safety, a nonprofit that focuses on firearm regulation.

T he case was investigated by Texas Ranger Jake Weaver.

As a policy matter, the case was reviewed by a grand jury to determine whether the troopers'
actions were appropriate. T he Wilbarger County grand jury cleared the troopers of any possible
wrongdoing in the shooting.

© 2018 Journal Media Group

 