Officers’ videos of shooting shown sooner - - Albuquerque Journal (NM) -
January 17, 2018 - page A2
January 17, 2018 | Albuquerque Journal (NM) | Copyright © 2018 Albuquerque Journal BY RYAN BOETEL
JOURNAL STAFF WRITER | Page A2

Albuquerque police on Tuesday showed reporters lapel camera videos of officers fatally shooting a
man armed with a knife and pipe, while the lieutenant overseeing an investigation into the event
provided a play-by-play account of the first police shooting under the new city administration.

Interim Police Chief Michael Geier said during the briefing that he plans to follow a similar practice
— releasing videos to the public and having news conferences about the incidents — in the event
of future police shootings.

Videos will be released promptly after all the involved officers and witnesses have been interviewed,
regardless of how “favorable” the videos may be to police, Geier said.

Several hours of video recordings from the events that led to the shooting will be made publicly
available today, but the police played portions showing critical pieces of the recordings during a
news conference T uesday.

“I mentioned accountability. T his (video) is obviously probably more favorable to police, just from
first impressions,” Geier said at the news conference, the first covering a police shooting since he
took over Dec. 1. “Sometimes (the videos) are questionable. It’s our stance that you’ll see
something like this (a news conference) and you’ll get the videos as well.”

T he startling video shown on Tuesday showed a team of four officers enter a vacant apartment
Daniel Saavedra-Arreola , 24, jumped from a closet and started
building on East Central when Daniel Saavedra- Arreola
swinging a pipe and a knife at officers within the confines of a small bedroom. One officer jumped
out of the way of the man as another officer fired a T aser, which was ineffective. T hen all four
officers fired their weapons about 17 times total, fatally wounding the man.

With the promise that videos of police shootings will be made public relatively early on during an
investigation, the chief has taken a stance on a hot-button topic in Albuquerque and around the
country.

T he Albuquerque Police Department is currently involved in a years-long U.S. Department of Justice
reform effort that aims to address, in part, a large number of police shootings. And two
Albuquerque police officers in 2016 were tried but not convicted on murder charges for an on-duty
shooting, with video as a key part of the evidence.

Around the country, some law enforcement agencies have faced criticism, or had officers charged
with crimes, as a result of on-body camera video. But there’s not a clear standard or practice of
when videos made by police officers become public records. Different departments have different

policies.

Albuquerque police under Chief Gorden Eden, who held the position from February 2014 until Geier
took over, released some videos within days of shootings but waited more than a year to release
other controversial videos.

T he briefing on Tuesday featured other details on the recent police shooting — the type that
weren’t commonly shared under the prior police administration.

Lt. Ray Del Greco of APD’s Force Investigative Team walked the media through the events that
transpired that night.

His briefing included discussing some of the plans and tactics the officers used when they arrived
on scene, and arranging tables in a police conference room and referencing blueprints to show the
size of the room that officers found themselves in when they encountered Saavedra-Arreola.

Del Greco said investigators plan to finish the investigation and submit it to the district attorney
within 70 days for a review.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Albuquerque Journal

 