Video of fatal police shooting made public - Albuquerque Journal (NM) -
January 19, 2018 - page A7
January 19, 2018 | Albuquerque Journal (NM) | RYAN BOETEL JOURNAL STAFF WRITER | Page A7

Daniel
T he shooting unfolds rapidly. Seconds after police officers found him hiding in a closet, Daniel
Saavedra- Arreola  is fatally wounded.
Saavedra- Arreola

Albuquerque police on Tuesday showed reporters video of the Jan. 7 incident and on Wednesday
the department released it through Evidence.com, a cloud-based video sharing platform. T he
Journal has made one of the videos, recorded from a police officer’s lapel camera, available on its
website.

T he video is graphic.

Officers Amy O’Dell, Elisa Valdez, Emmett Fritz and Bryce Willsey all fired their weapons during the
encounter.

T he Journal has posted a clip that’s about 10 minutes long at abqjournal. com. In it, officers can be
heard yelling into a vacant apartment on East Central, asking for a suspect to exit. Police had been
called there on a report that a suspect had broken into one of the units. In reality, police said police
officers called on the suspect to exit the apartment for over an hour before they forced their way
through a locked door and started searching.

T he video shows officers checking closets, a kitchen, the bathroom and one of the bedrooms
before they go into the final room of the house, where Saavedra-Arreola is waiting.

As soon as one of the officers opens the closet door, Saavedra-Arreola lunges and starts wildly
swinging a metal pipe and a folding knife. One of the officers narrowly avoids being struck,
according to the video.

Police first shot him with a T aser, which doesn’t have any apparent effect.

T he four officers then fire their weapons a total of 17 times. Saavedra-Arreola dies as a result of
his injuries.

Albuquerque interim Police Chief Michael Geier said this week that he plans to follow a similar
protocol after future police shootings. Once police have finished their preliminary investigation by
interviewing all officers and eyewitnesses, he’ll brief the media on the shooting and provide them
with access to the shooting videos.

Shaun Willoughby, the president of the Albuquerque police union, said that while the union thinks
videos shouldn’t be released until after the district attorney decides whether or not to press
charges, he said it’s a step in the right direction that Geier has created a policy for when the videos

should be released. T he prior administration didn’t have a clear policy on when it would release
videos.

T his was the first shooting that happened since Geier took over the department on Dec. 1.

Online

T o watch the video go to ABQjournal.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Albuquerque Journal

 