Police identify man killed in officer-involved - Honolulu Star-Advertiser
(HI) - November 28, 2018
November 28, 2018 | Honolulu Star-Advertiser (HI) | Star-Advertiser staff

Police have identified the man killed in the officer-involved shooting that occurred Tuesday as 42-
year-old Bert E. M ercado
determine the exact cause of his death.

B ert E. Mercado  of Hawaiian Beaches. An autopsy has been scheduled for Friday to

On T uesday, police said they received a report of a man who had stabbed himself with a knife.
When they arrived on scene, they were confronted with a man next to a rifle. Officers ordered the
man to drop the rifle when he took hold of it. When he pointed the rifle at the officers, police fired
their weapons at the man before he retreated into the residence and out of sight.

Police then set up a safety perimeter around the home and evacuated nearby residents as they
waited for a special response team to arrive. A crisis negotiator attempted to establish
communication with the man but was unsuccessful in doing so.

At about 7 p.m., team members entered the home and discovered the man dead. T here was no
one else inside at the time.

Police said there were four officers who fired their weapons. However, it is unknown at this time
how many bullets struck the man.

A terroristic threatening investigation has been initiated, as well as an unattended death
investigation. A criminal and administrative investigation are also underway into the circumstances
surrounding the fatal shooting.

Police ask anyone who may have witnessed this incident or has information about it to call the non-
emergency line at 935-3311 or contact Detective Jesse Kerr at 961-2379 or
jesse.kerr@hawaiicounty.gov.

T ipsters who prefer to remain anonymous may call the islandwide Crime Stoppers number at 961-
8300 and may be eligible for a reward of up to $1,000.00. Crime Stoppers is a volunteer program
run by ordinary citizens who want to keep their community safe. Crime Stoppers does not record
calls or subscribe to any Caller ID service. All Crime Stoppers information is kept confidential.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Honolulu Star-Advertiser, All rights reserved.

 