
 
"After watching the body camera video of the Jermaine Massey Tasing and shooting, I believe that had the

deputies on scene been Crisis Intervention Team certified, his death may have been avoided." 

Founder of the mental health awareness organization Rehinge and a member of the NAMI South Carolina state

Paton Blough 

board 

episodes. 

them with a knife. 

A South Carolina mental health expert says he is "confident" Crisis Intervention Team training would have changed

the outcome in the shooting death of Jermaine Massey. 

Bill Lindsey, the executive director of the National Alliance on Mental Health, said the organization's free CIT

training teaches law enforcement officers specifically on how to handle those in crisis experiencing mental health

Massey, 35, was shot and killed outside his Poe Mill community home March 19 after deputies said he charged at

He called 911 to seek help during a mental breakdown, telling a dispatcher he had a bipolar disorder. None of the

four deputies involved had been through the 40-hour CIT training course. 

Solicitor Walt Wilkins released bodycam footage from the shooting and announced Thursday he found no evidence

of criminal wrongdoing on behalf of the deputies involved. 

Lindsey viewed the footage Friday and called the shooting "incredibly disturbing." He said he believes the shooting

would have been prevented had the deputies been trained in CIT. 

"You never know what's going to happen, but I'm confident we would have had a different outcome if a trained

officer who knows how to de-escalate a problem had been there. That's the reason we do the training," Lindsey

said. "It's incredibly disturbing on our end that something like this happens, especially when there is an opportunity

to get trained and be able to de-escalate somebody in crisis." 

Lindsey said officers who have had such training understand tactics to re-direct the focus of someone in a crisis

and get them to think about things other than the situation at hand to calm them down and get them detained. 

"In most situations, you're trying to come up with something that the person can relate to other than the situation

they're in right now," he said. 

means to get him to comply, Lindsey said. 

While saying "drop the knife" indicated what the deputies wanted Massey to do, the tactic wasn't the appropriate

Lindsey added that NAMI has had "tremendous success" with the Greenville Police Department and getting police

officers trained to reduce overall crisis-related incidents. 

About a month before Greenville County deputies shot and killed Jermaine Massey, his older brother had a similar

run-in with law enforcement but a very different outcome. 

Tamika Gordon, Massey's sister, said her older brother was having a mental breakdown in his Greenville home

earlier this year. He was breaking out windows and swinging a wooden beam. Greenville police officers responded,

took him into custody and admitted him into a mental health facility. 

Gordon said the officers showed concern for his safety, asking him how they could help him and what he needed.

After distracting him, they were able to restrain him. 

"They came with a sense of really wanting to help," Gordon said. 

She spoke out Friday, a day after the announcement that the four deputies involved in the Massey shooting were

cleared. In the video, deputies are seen gathering around Massey while he was in his back yard with a knife. At one

point, he holds it to his chest. 

video shows. 

The confrontation went on for about six minutes. Deputies tried to use Tasers on him, and they didn't work. The

deputies repeatedly told him to "drop the knife" until Massey took steps toward one of them with a knife raised,

He was shot and killed. Eleven shots were fired, according to the report from the State Law Enforcement Division. 

Family members said Friday the announcement "reopened wounds" and further stressed the need for deputies to

receive proper Crisis Intervention Team training led by NAMI. 

"What are we supposed to say to this hurting family? Their wounds were reopened," U.A. Thompson, a family

representative, said Friday during a news conference outside the Greenville County courthouse. "He will not be the

last case. We must enforce this demand that CIT training be mandated on a state level." 

Gordon said her other brother's encounter with law enforcement was when he was exhibiting erratic behavior

inside his home. He even slapped a police officer at one point during the ordeal, she said. 

He has since been committed to a mental health facility and diagnosed with bipolar disorder, she said. Gordon

declined to provide her brother's name. 

She said the differences in how the encounters ended up further point to the disparity in how law enforcement

officers are trained. 

"A lot of time, pointing out your gun and shooting doesn't help," she said. 

Sheriff Johnny Mack Brown said Thursday the Sheriff's Office is in the process of getting more deputies through

CIT training. One class is scheduled for July, another is set for December. Brown said Thursday he recognized the

importance of such training given the prevalence of mental health issues across the country. 

NAMI members have been working with the Sheriff's Office to find opportunities for more deputies to be trained,

Lindsey said. Classes are scheduled across the state throughout the year, and Lindsey said he hopes deputies can

find available class slots in other jurisdictions. 

Records obtained by The Greenville News in May through the Freedom of Information Act showed that 106

Greenville County Sheriff's Office employees had completed the CIT training. The agency has about 450 sworn

deputies. 

The four deputies involved in the March 19 shooting had not taken the CIT training, though they were up-to-date

with training through the state Criminal Justice Academy, which includes a two-hour mental illness class,

according to Maj. Florence McCants, a spokeswoman for the academy. 

NAMI's CIT training for law enforcement is a 40-hour class taken in the span of a week, Lindsey said. 

The Greenville Police Department has 154 officers trained in CIT out of nearly 200. 

A SLED report released by Wilkins shows Massey did not have a documented mental illness in his medical records,

though family members said several of Massey's relatives have been diagnosed with bipolar disorder. 

Paton Blough, founder of the mental health awareness organization Rehinge and a member of the NAMI South

Carolina state board, said he is encouraged that the Sheriff's Office has scheduled two upcoming CIT training

sessions. He said the agency is "headed in the right direction." 

"After watching the body camera video of the Jermaine Massey Tasing and shooting, I believe that had the

deputies on scene been Crisis Intervention Team certified, his death may have been avoided," Blough said in an

email. "I support these deputies and believe they only had intentions to help Mr. Massey. My heart, love and

prayers go out to the Massey family and to the officers involved in this tragedy." 

Traci Fant, an activist and another representative for the family, said many people today have mental illnesses that

go without diagnosis. She said deputies should have been trained to recognize that he was having a mental

breakdown and treated the situation as such. 

"They were not looking at him like a human being; they treated him like an animal," Fant said. 

Tiffany Copeland, Massey's longtime girlfriend, said she's struggling with grief, particularly with how to care for her

children in the wake of such a loss. She said her son continues to ask her, "Why did the police have to shoot

"What are you supposed to tell a 5-year-old?" Copeland said. 

"After watching the body camera video of the Jermaine Massey Tasing and shooting, I believe that had the

deputies on scene been Crisis Intervention Team certified, his death may have been avoided." 

Founder of the mental health awareness organization Rehinge and a member of the NAMI South Carolina state

Daddy?" 

Paton Blough 

board 

CAPTION:  

Tiffany Copeland, who is the mother of Jermaine Massey's children, wipes away tears during a press conference

outside the Greenville County courthouse Friday to respond to the news that the solicitor has cleared the deputies

involved from any wrongdoing in the shooting death of Massey. 

BART BOATWRIGHT/Staff 
 
 
