
 
Dec. 21--Correction: The Bureau of Criminal Apprehension's investigation is continuing, and the case has not yet

been turned over to the Hennepin County Attorney's Office, spokesman Chuck Laszewski said. 

The investigation into the fatal police shooting of Travis Jordan is continuing, before the Hennepin County

Attorney's Office decides whether two Minneapolis police officers acted properly when they fired at the apparently

suicidal man during an encounter on the city's North Side last month. 

Chuck Laszewski, a spokesman for the office, confirmed Thursday that prosecutors had accepted the case from

the state Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, the state agency that typically investigates police-involved shootings.

But later he said that the investigation was still in the BCA's hands. 

Authorities say that a woman, thought to be Jordan's girlfriend, called police at 1:58 p.m. on Nov. 7 to do a

wellness check on Jordan, after he started making suicidal comments during a phone conversation. Officers Ryan

Keyes and Neal Walsh arrived at his home in the 3700 block of Morgan Avenue N. within six minutes of her 911 call

and encountered Jordan, who was holding a knife, according to authorities. 

What happens next remains murky, but authorities said the two officers shot Jordan, 36, multiple times as he

clutched the knife. He died later at a nearby hospital. 

Body cameras captured video and audio of the shooting, which were immediately turned over to the BCA. 

Keyes and Walsh, both relative newcomers to the Fourth Precinct where the shooting occurred, remain on

standard administrative leave. 

The shooting reignited calls for better police responses to mental health crisis, and prompted the City Council to

fund an expansion of the department's mental health co-responder program, which pairs officers with counselors

on certain calls involving mentally unstable individuals. 

Friends and relatives have disputed the official account of what occurred and questioned why officers didn't use a

Taser instead of bullets to subdue Jordan, who court records show had a history of mental health issues and

The Police Department through a spokeswoman declined to comment on Thursday. 

Correction: Previous versions of this article misstated the status of the investigation. The case has not yet been

turned over to the Hennepin County Attorney's Office. 

substance abuse. 

CREDIT: By Libor Jany 
 
 
