
 
Nov. 21--Police in Stillwater fatally shot and killed a man Wednesday who they said was armed with a knife at the

The encounter occurred about 1 a.m. at a home in the 1200 block of 4th Street S., according to Stillwater Police

family's home. 

Chief John Gannaway. 

One officer discharged a gun, while another fired a Taser, the chief said. 

Officers from the Stillwater, Bayport and Oak Park Heights police departments were called to the residence on a

report of a man being suicidal, Gannaway said. 

Officers encountered the man, who they said had a knife, and opened fire. 

He was taken to nearby Lakeview Hospital and pronounced dead. 

While authorities have yet to release the man's name, a neighbor identified him as 21-year-old Keaton Larson. 

The neighbor, who asked not to be identified, said Larson lived at the home with a brother. 

He added that he saw Larson just off the sidewalk across the street from their homes. Larson was being tended to

by emergency personnel. 

already cut his own throat. 

Emergency dispatch audio revealed that a woman reported that her brother was trying to kill himself and may have

An officer reported to dispatch that Larson "has got a knife. He's at the front door." 

Larson moved farther from his home, and seconds later officers screamed, "Shots fired!" 

Police body-worn cameras and squad car cameras were in use at the time, the chief said. The state Bureau of

Criminal Apprehension (BCA) has been asked to lead the investigation. 

This is the third instance this month in the Twin Cities area of police fatally shooting someone, all of whom were

said to be suicidal. 

Travis Jordan, 36, was shot in north Minneapolis on Nov. 9 outside his home in the 3700 block of Morgan Avenue.

The BCA said Jordan had a large kitchen knife on him at the time when he emerged from the front door. 

That same day, an officer in Shakopee shot a man who pointed a gun at him at a house in the 800 block of Apgar

Street, according to police. The man was identified as 61-year-old James Paul Hanchett. 

Both of those encounters remain under investigation by the BCA. 

CREDIT: By Paul Walsh 
 
 
