Police: Video shows man knock down officer before - Associated Press
State Wire: Maryland (MD) - June 12, 2018
June 12, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maryland (MD) | DAVID McFADDEN Associated Press

BALT IMORE (AP) — Body camera video shows a Maryland man knock down a police officer and
stand over him as the officer fatally shoots him, police said Tuesday without publicly releasing the
footage.

T he Montgomery County Police Department identified the officer as Anand Badgujar, a patrolman
who has spent roughly two years with the department. He was placed on paid administrative leave
after the Monday shooting death in Silver Spring, a Washington suburb.

Police Chief J. Thomas Manger told reporters that the 41-year-old black man became "combative"
in a parking lot of a townhouse community. Manger told reporters that the man was shot "multiple
times" and apparently was unarmed.

T he dead man was identified Tuesday as Robert Lawrence White
could not immediately be reached by telephone, and a home number listed for White was not
working.

Robert Lawrence White of Silver Spring. His relatives

After interviewing an uninvolved witness and reviewing video from Badgujar's body-worn camera
as well as images taken from a colleague's camera, police said White assaulted Badgujar after the
officer "attempted to speak" with him.

T he patrolman had come to the area on an unrelated call and it was not immediately clear what
caused him to focus on White. With the situation quickly escalating, the officer tried to pepper
spray White, police said, and then requested assistance after the man moved away.

When Badgujar returned to his cruiser to switch off the ignition, White "began approaching" him,
according to police. T hey assert White started "running at the officer," forcing Badgujar to back-
pedal away. T hey say White "knocked him down as the officer discharged his weapon."

"White fell, got up, stood over the officer who was still on the ground, and continued to assault the
officer, at which time the officer fired additional rounds," the Tuesday statement reads.

Authorities have not yet released audio or video from the officer's body-worn camera, but
Montgomery County police scanner recordings on Broadcastify.com capture a male officer's voice
saying there could be a "suicide-by-cop thing" taking place. T he voice also specifically makes
mention of the suspect putting his hands in a pocket.

Minutes later, an officer's voice can be heard saying: "Start fire-rescue for a gunshot, or for several
gunshots! Officers coming in, start with a med kit. Next officers coming in, start me a perimeter.
Get your crime scene tape out."

A county police spokesman declined to say anything about the audio captured by Broadcastify.

T he shooting death is being investigated by county detectives. Once completed, their findings will
be reviewed by the state's attorney's office in neighboring Howard County to determine if
Badgujar acted within the law and if the case needs to go before a grand jury.

___

Follow McFadden on T witter: https://twitter.com/dmcfadd

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 