
 
In the 18 months leading up to his death, Robert Lawrence White struggled to overcome his father's passing,

squabbles over a family home, and intense feelings of loneliness. 

White, described as quick-witted and funny, often walked the streets of Silver Spring, Maryland, to escape the

chaos that clouded his mind. 

afternoon. 

White's last stroll on June 11 ended in a confrontation with a Montgomery County police officer, during which he

was shot and killed. More than a week after the incident, questions remain about what transpired that Monday

Though representatives of the Montgomery County Police Department (MCPD) say White, 41, assaulted Officer

Amand Badgujar, close friends, citing reports from witnesses, said they believe Badgujar provoked White. 

"Anyone who's talked to Rob in the last couple of years would always say they've seen him walking around random

places. It's like 'Where's Waldo?'" Marvin Whitfield, White's friend of 35 years, told The Washington Informer. 

Whitfield said when he first heard about the shooting, he didn't know White was involved until the next day when

their mutual friend sent a screenshot of the deceased's photo followed by "Say it isn't so!" 

Police say Badgujar, a two-year veteran, engaged White on 2:15 p.m. as part of an investigation into suspicious

activity on the 9200 block of Three Oaks Drive in Silver Spring. In response to what was described as White's

combative disposition, the officer pepper-sprayed White who then ran toward Badgujar and knocked him down. 

Bodycam footage, MCPD said, shows White assaulting Badgujar and Badgujar shooting White. The latter received

treatment on the scene before being pronounced dead at a local hospital. 

As the investigation of the shooting, coordinated by MCPD and the Howard County State Attorney's Office, gets

underway, Whitfield and others say they want the release of video that shows the entirety of the deadly quarrel. 

"Something has been in lost in our society when we look at people, see exactly what they're going through, and

instead of getting to the root of the matter, we label them as crazy, confused, or mentally ill," said Whitfield, 40, an

Adelphi, Maryland, resident. "Rob liked walking and it was because of his loneliness. When you get to a point where

you got a house you don't want to live in, that should be explored." 

White's death prompted a candlelight vigil and calls for public officials to address police-community relations.

While he didn't form any conclusions about MCPD's involvement, Montgomery County Councilman Craig Rice (D-

District 2) said in a carefully worded Facebook post Thursday he has questions about attempted de-escalation and

proper use of force. 

Last week, dozens of activists and community organizers converged on downtown Silver Spring to protest the

shooting and demand the release of the bodycam footage. 

Supporters of Brandy Brooks, an at-large candidate for the county council, was among the members of the crowd

in downtown Silver Spring's spacious Veterans Plaza along Ellsworth Drive. She, too, expressed her concern about

protocol around how police officers engage suspects enduring trauma, and equitable access to mental health

services. 

Informer in a written statement. 

"We have so much work to do when it comes to police-community relations, especially for communities of color,

immigrant communities, and residents with disabilities or with mental health needs," Brooks, a Democrat, told The

For the full version of the story, go to washingtoninformer.com. 
 
 
