Videos show police shootout - Snapchat, bank - Beacon News, The
(Aurora, IL) - April 18, 2018 - page 1
April 18, 2018 | Beacon News, The (Aurora, IL) | Hannah Leone | Page 1

Aurora police on Tuesday released video involving an officer-involved shooting that resulted in the
death of a 36-year-old Aurora man in March.

Santiag o Calderon, 36, died from multiple gunshot wounds following a downtown shootout
Santiag o Calderon
involving two Aurora police officers, according to the Kane County coroner's office.

Police released video to T he Beacon-News in response to a public records request, and also on
Facebook.

T he video released on Facebook includes clips from a bank surveillance system and social media
including Snapchat. Police noted slight discrepancies in timing because cameras at the bank's
parking lot and AT M aren't synchronized.

T he first clip begins by showing a figure police identified as Calderon running through the parking
lot, left to right in the frame, with an officer close behind. Calderon runs behind a white van parked
on the right side of the frame, and the officer positions himself behind a darker car parked several
spaces to its left.

T here was a warrant out for Calderon's arrest because he failed to appear for a March 21 hearing
on felony gun charges stemming from a March 18 traffic stop. He had been out on bond on
$75,000 bail.

T he officers who pulled him over March 18 were investigating a shooting that day and questioned
him about it, but ultimately did not believe Calderon or his passengers were involved in the
shooting, according to reports. But when they searched him, they found a gun. He did not have a
valid firearm owner's identification card, and was previously convicted of a felony, according to the
pending charges.

On March 22, police said two investigators in an unmarked police car followed a green Chevrolet
SUV driven by Calderon, with a 24-year-old Aurora man as a passenger, from a "known gang
house" on the 200 block of South Lake Street to the first block of East Galena Boulevard, where
they had it pull over. Police did not say how long the investigators had been watching the house
before they saw the SUV leave.

Police said the unmarked car was not equipped with video cameras, and Aurora police do not use
body cameras.

Aurora Police Chief Kristen Ziman previously said the stop was called in before the shooting, and
the unmarked squad had blue and red lights that were activated during the stop, but said she was

unclear on why the car was stopped.

Ziman said the investigators involved, Matthew Huber and Colin Griffin, have each been with the
department for 10 years and were both put on paid administrative leave while the case is under
investigation.

Calderon shot at officers, then drove away eastbound, striking a 2009 Chevrolet Malibu at Galena
Boulevard and Route 25, Ziman said.

After the crash, Calderon ran from the SUV, exchanging gunfire with two investigators, police said.

Calderon was fatally shot in the parking lot on South LaSalle Street between Galena and Downer
Place, police said.

He was pronounced dead at the scene, police said.

Officers reported finding a pistol on the sidewalk a few feet away from Calderon. Medics treated
Griffin for a graze wound and Huber for shoulder injuries. Both were taken to an Aurora hospital,
treated and released, according to reports.

Police said Calderon's passenger, a 24-year-old Aurora man, remained at the scene, and police
ultimately released him without charges.

T he Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force is continuing to investigate.

hleone@tribpub.com

T witter @hannahmleone

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Beacon News. All rights reserved. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED.

 