Downtown Aurora businesses ‘focus on positive - Daily Herald
(Arlington Heights, IL) - March 24, 2018
March 24, 2018 | Daily Herald (Arlington Heights, IL) | Marie Wilson mwilson@dailyherald.com

Downtown Aurora businesses ‘focus on positive’ after fatal shooting

T he fatal police-involved shootout Thursday in Aurora was three blocks from the Paramount
T heatre and two blocks from city hall, but business leaders say it shouldn’t cause people to shy
away from downtown.

T here’s no reason for the case to adversely affect businesses, said Jimi Allen, whose Bureau
Gravity marketing company is nearing completion of a workspace for employees and clients just
down LaSalle Street from where the shooting took place.

"It’s up to business owners to make this downtown alive," he said and bring "more people making
things here than making trouble."

T he shooting also doesn’t change the goals of those promoting downtown activities and culture,
said Marissa Amoni with Aurora Downtown, a business coalition that plans events in the area.

"In a city of our size, we are lucky to have a great police patrol and a safe downtown," Amoni said.
"We won’t be discouraged by this rare event."

Police said the shooting took place about 9:45 p.m. when investigators followed a vehicle leaving a
"known gang house" on Lake Street just west of the Fox River and tried to conduct a traffic stop.

When the driver, identified as 36-year-old Santiag o Calderon
shot at investigators, then drove away, crashing into another vehicle at Galena Boulevard and
Broadway, just east of the river. After the crash, police said Calderon got out of his car and ran,
exchanging gunfire with two investigators.

Santiag o Calderon of Aurora, pulled over, police said he

Police said the man was killed on LaSalle Street between Galena Boulevard and Downer Place.
Officer Matt Huber was shot in the leg and officer Colin Griffin injured his shoulder. Both were
treated at an Aurora hospital and released.

Allen, who has been working for eight years to open a new office and event space at 56 S. LaSalle
St. in a former auto garage, said he stays in the area because it takes investment to create a new
vibrancy and deter crime.

"As long as people are present and good things are going on, we don’t have to worry about this
stuff," Allen said.

Amoni said people patronizing downtown businesses such as Leland Legends, Gillerson’s Grubbery

or Endiro Coffee stayed safe T hursday, even while police were tracking down and exchanging
gunfire with the driver involved in the shooting.

"T he police also responded very well with cordoning off the area so everyone was safe," Amoni
said.

She said additional lighting recently was installed on Broadway and the area often remains busy in
the evenings with shows at the Paramount T heatre — although there was no production T hursday
night.

T im Rater, the Paramount’s president and CEO, said patrons don’t tell "scary stories" about their
experiences coming into downtown Aurora, parking and attending shows.

"When they come, they feel safe," he said.

T he theater provides security and police routinely patrol the area. As a resident and a downtown
employee for nearly eight years, Rater said he’s never felt threatened in any way — and T hursday’s
shooting didn’t change that.

Because the events leading to the shooting began outside downtown, Rater and Amoni said it
shouldn’t be seen as an episode of "downtown crime."

She also said the shooting shouldn’t deter people from attending activities in the area, such as the
Egg Hunt on the Island on Saturday, the third annual Food T ruck Fest on Friday, May 4, or
Downtown Aurora Magic on June 8 and 9.

T hat’s Allen’s approach, too. Instead of shying away from the area where the shooting occurred,
he wants to bring more people there as clients who come for meetings or guests who come for
parties at the future Gravity Building.

"We need to focus on what is positive," Allen said. "T he only answer is ‘make it better.’"

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Daily Herald

 