Police identify man shot and killed in stolen car - St. Louis Post-
Dispatch (MO) - December 14, 2018 - page A4
December 14, 2018 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) | From staff reports | Page A4

ST . LOUIS • Police have identified a man fatally shot by a St. Louis police officer who was injured
while investigating a stolen SUV on Wednesday afternoon.

Demario B ass , 29, was shot in the chest by the police officer and died at a hospital, police said.
Demario B ass

T he officer, 31, was injured when Bass sped backward in the stolen SUV, trapping the officer
between the open door and body of the SUV, police said. He suffered a head injury that Chief John
Hayden described Wednesday as “very significant.” T he officer, who has been a member of the
force for two years, was in fair condition at a hospital with a cut to his head and trauma to his
mouth, police said in an update T hursday.

Bass lived in the 8500 block of Mora Lane in St. Louis, a little over a mile from the gas station at
Goodfellow Boulevard and Lillian Avenue where he was killed. A woman at his home Thursday said
she was Bass’ mother but was too distraught to speak to a reporter.

In a more detailed account of what happened Wednesday, the police department said T hursday
that a license plate reader had seen a plate belonging to a stolen 2004 Hyundai Santa Fe heading
south on Goodfellow from West Florissant Avenue at 12:49 p.m.

T he description of the vehicle was broadcast, and two officers in a patrol car spotted the maroon
SUV at the BP station at 5003 North Goodfellow within minutes, police said. T he stolen SUV was
parked at the gas pumps facing south. T he officers pulled in front of the vehicle.

One officer got out and walked to the SUV, spotting Bass inside, the department said. T he officer
opened the car door to arrest Bass.

“T he suspect suddenly put the stolen vehicle into reverse and accelerated backwards at a high rate
of speed,” the department said in a statement.

T he officer became lodged between the open door and the SUV, the statement said. T he SUV
moved backward and crashed into a canopy support, causing the door to close on the officer and
throwing him at least partly into the vehicle.

T he SUV rolled forward and came to a stop, and the officer fell backward to the ground.

T he officer fired at least one time during the encounter, hitting Bass in the chest, the department
said. Hayden said Wednesday that it wasn’t immediately clear when the officer fired, but that video
captured the incident and that will be part of the investigation.

T he other officer did not fire his weapon and was not hurt, Hayden said.

T he gas station is just north of Interstate 70 in the Walnut Park West neighborhood.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 St. Louis Post-Dispatch

 