Suspected gunman killed at arts fest was gang - Express-Times, The
(Easton, PA) - June 18, 2018 - page A1
June 18, 2018 | Express-Times, The (Easton, PA) | Sophie Nieto-Munoz, Paige Gross and Kevin Shea | Page A1

T he burst of violence that injured 22 people at a community arts festival in Trenton on Sunday
morning — including 17 people who were shot — began when several people started shooting one
another in an apparent gang-related dispute, authorities say. T he incident left one of the alleged
gunmen dead.

T ahaji Wells
T ahaji Wells , 33, was shot and killed by police after allegedly exchanging fire with at least two
other suspects at the Art All Night event, Mercer County Prosecutor Angelo Onofri said during a
news conference Sunday evening. T he other suspected gunmen remained hospitalized, Onofri
said.

Prior to the shooting, fights broke out inside and outside Roebling Wire Works, where the annual
event was held. Police attempted to disperse the crowd and urged the organizers to shut down the
festival, Onofri said.

“T hose individuals continued to loiter and additional fights broke out, and then the shooting
occurred,” Onofri said, noting the suspects first shot at each other before police opened fire.

Onofri said two other suspects, Amir Armstrong and another he did not identify, were in the
hospital in critical and stable condition, respectively. He did not detail the charges facing the two.

T wo other people who were in critical condition Sunday — including a 13-year-old boy shot in the
melee — were listed in

stable condition Sunday afternoon, Onofri said.

Seventeen people were taken to Capital Health Regional Medical Center in T renton, spokeswoman
Kate Stier said. Some were released later Sunday.

It is possible that some victims were injured by cops’ bullets as officers were shooting at the
suspects, officials said. How many shots were fired in all is still under investigation, they said.

Gov. Phil Murphy made a brief visit to Capital Health Regional Medical Center, where many of the
shooting victims were taken Sunday. He also spoke during a Sunday service at the Galilee Baptist
Church in T renton, where the governor offered words of encouragement and prayers to the
community.

“We can rise above this,” he told those in attendance.

T he event, billed as “24 hours of community, creativity, and inspiration” and held at the historic

Roebling Wire Works building on South Clinton Avenue, turned to chaos shortly before 3 a.m. An
estimated 1,000 people were at the event at that hour.

People ran from the event into nearby streets as police descended on the building and alternately
looked for shooters and treated victims.

Irvin Higgenbotham, a resident who said he comes to the event every year, said he was walking
inside the event with his bike when he heard the shots going off.

“It was like, pow, pow, pow and then I was laying down on the ground,” he said.

A bullet struck his leg, he said, and a woman who was at the event helped him until he was able to
be treated. Higgenbotham returned to the scene of the shooting at about 8:45 a.m. Sunday, after
being released from the hospital, to find out what happened, and how he got caught in the middle
of the shooting, he said.

Onofri described a chaotic and confusing scene early on: Trenton police were swamped with 911
calls reporting a shooting inside the venue, and the first police officers on scene radioed they
needed critical assistance and backup.

T renton police were working off-duty security at the event, and there were no metal detectors
inside the building, authorities said. T he event occurs both inside and outdoors. Authorities said
Wells was carrying a handgun with an extended magazine — a gun that is illegal to possess in New
Jersey. It was one of several guns recovered at the scene.

According to authorities, Wells was sentenced in 2004 to 18 years in state prison after pleading
guilty to aggravated manslaughter in the fatal shooting of 22-year-old Robert McNair during a
dispute over who should drive a car Wells had driven from a local bar. Wells was 17 at the time of
his killing, authorities said.

Records show that in 2010, Wells — still serving time for the 2002 killing — was sentenced to six
more years after pleading guilty to a second-degree racketeering charge following a prosecution
by the state Attorney General’s Office.

In that case, state prosecutors said Wells had helped David “Duke” Allen, the imprisoned leader of
the Bloods’ Nine Trey Gangsters faction, run his gang from behind bars. T he Attorney General’s
Office has described Wells as an alleged Bloods gang member.

He was released from prison in February, records show. A search of state court records did not
show any prior felony convictions for Armstrong, one of two surviving alleged gunmen.

Witnesses who spoke to NJ Advance Media say they heard shots fired inside the building first
before the gunfire migrated outside.

“I’m still in shock, all that happened all around me,” said Edward “NJ Weedman” Forchion, who was
at the event Saturday night and took videos of the scene.

He said he was passing out flyers and taking photos when “all hell broke loose.” Forchion said he
heard 26 shots. T he gunfire started inside the building and then continued outside, he said.

“T here were people that fell and people stepped over them, people that ran into cars, people were
scrambling,” he said.

Videos posted on social media Sunday showed police and attendees huddling behind cars and
helping the wounded. Maurice Lennon, 31, said he wanted to get one last look at the art inside the
building with his friend early Sunday when he heard gunfire.

“We heard the first shots ring out inside the art gallery. T he first shot, then the second shot before
it resonated that: Wow that’s gunfire,” Lennon, of Trenton said in a phone interview Sunday. “You
saw the doors bust open, everyone starting running out and panicking. I ended up getting tripped
and fell and I ended up crawling.”

Lennon said he has cuts on his legs and arms from crawling and being stepped on by other people
fleeing the shooting.

“I’ve gone to this event for several years. I’ve been going for the past several years, never anything
like this,” Lennon said. “I’ve always bragged that this is Trenton’s best event … it’s always peaceful
I’ve always felt safe.”

Organizers of Art All Night could not be reached Sunday, but a message posted on Facebook said
the rest of the event would be canceled.

T he event, now in its 12th year, draws thousands.

T renton’s mayor-elect, state Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, D-15th Dist., issued a statement
saying he attended Art All Night on Saturday, and was unsure about the popular event’s future. “I
hope that Art All Night does continue but we are going to have to reevaluate security measures in
the future,” he said. “It will be a top priority of my administration to make Trenton a safer city.”

NJ Advance Media staff writers Bill Duhart, Karen Yi and Thomas Moriarty contributed to this
report.

Copyrig ht 2018 The Express-Times. All Rights Reserved.

 