Second person charged in festival shooting - Hunterdon County
Democrat (Flemington, NJ) - June 21, 2018 - page A4
June 21, 2018 | Hunterdon County Democrat (Flemington, NJ) | Paige Gross and Gianluca D’Elia | Page A4

trenton

A second man has been charged in the Art All Night shooting that left one dead and up to 29
injured, Mercer County Prosecutor Angelo Onofri announced on T uesday.

Onofri made the announcement in a second-floor room of Friendship Baptist Church surrounded
by the state’s top law enforcement officials, clergy leaders and Trenton residents.

Davone White, 26, of T renton, faces multiple weapons offenses, including being in the possession
of a large-capacity magazine. He was being treated for injuries from the shooting, Onofri said

Amir Armstrong, charged on Sunday, is facing one count of possession of a weapon. T he
prosecutor’s office did not detail White’s, Armstrong’s, or T ahaij Wells’s exact roles or affiliations in
regards to the shooting. Wells was shot and killed by police in the exchange of gunfire.

Pastor John Taylor invited Onofri and other officials to join the Capital City Community Coalition to
discuss recent episodes of violence in Trenton and how to move forward. Onofri identified
neighborhood tension and disputes as a major motive in the shooting.

“We don’t get over this in one instance,” Taylor told the residents and community leaders. “No
mother births a child for them to become a gang member.”

Onofri said it’s unfortunate that residents are using guns to settle disputes, and that he
understands the effects gun violence has on families in T renton.

“It’s a hurt and a pain that never goes away, and I know all of you are hurting because of it every
day,” Onofri said.

Onofri also addressed concerns about a Facebook post that warned Art All Night festival-goers
about a shooting. He said the message had been posted by a teacher in Hamilton Township about
14 hours before the shooting occurred.

He added that the prosecutor’s office is attempting to get a formal statement from her, as she
was in North Carolina. Onofri urged others to call the police if they have inside information, instead
of posting on social media.

Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said lax gun laws in other states are to blame for weapons getting
into New Jersey and being used in criminal acts.

We are going to “name and shame” these other states with loose gun laws, Grewal said. He also
discussed targeting violent criminal gangs and aggressively prosecuting them to deter this type of
crime.

All law enforcement officers who spoke reiterated that the city shouldn’t back down from hosting
Art All Night and other opportunities for Trenton residents and visitors to come together. Officials
and organizers have talked of increased security, but Onofri promised it wouldn’t be “a militarized
state.”

Gusciora said there were only four Trenton police officers at the event because it was a peaceful
event that relied on a lot of volunteers for support.

“T his is a post-Parkland discussion,” Gusciora told NJ Advance Media after the news conference.

He said the city will have to work with community church leaders and non-profits and increase the
city’s recreation budget to give young people options outside of getting involved in violent
activities.

Onofri added that the artists and organizers waiting to retrieve their work from the scene should
be able to do so T uesday, if the investigation can be wrapped up.

“We will not accept our city being turned upside down,” Pastor Taylor said.

Paige Gross, NJ Advance Media, pgross @njadvancemedia.com

Gianluca D’Elia, NJ Advance Media, gdelia @njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht 2018 Hunterdon County Democrat. All Rights Reserved.

 