17 shot during Art All Night fest; suspected - Jersey Journal, The (Jersey
City, NJ) - June 18, 2018 - page 011
June 18, 2018 | Jersey Journal, The (Jersey City, NJ) | By Sophie Nieto-Munoz and Paige Gross NJ Advance
Media | Page 011

trenton

A 33-year-old man was shot and killed by police during an outbreak of gunplay in Trenton at the Art
All Night festival early yesterday morning that injured 22.

T ahaji Wells  was shot and killed by police after allegedly exchanging fire with at least two other
T ahaji Wells
suspects in a burst of violence that injured 22 people, 17 of whom were shot, Mercer County
Prosecutor Angelo Onofri said during a press conference last night.

T he shooting appears to be a gang-related dispute, Onofri said.

Prior to the shooting, fights broke out inside and outside Roebling Wire Works, where the annual
event was held. Police attempted to disperse the crowd and urged the organizers to shut down the
festival, Onofri said.

“T hose individuals continued to loiter and additional fights broke out, and then the shooting
occurred,” Onofri said, noting the suspects first shot at each other before police opened fire.

Authorities said Wells was carrying a handgun with an extended magazine — a gun that’s illegal to
possess in New Jersey. It was one of several guns recovered at the scene. Authorities also
commented on his violent past.

Wells was sentenced in 2004 to 18 years in state prison after pleading guilty to aggravated
manslaughter in the fatal shooting of 22-year-old Robert McNair during a dispute over who should
drive a car Wells had driven from a local bar. Wells was 17 at the time of his killing, authorities said.

At the time of the 2002 killing, after Wells had been announced as a suspect, his mother told the
T imes of Trenton “he (was never involved) in things like this.”

Records show that in 2010, Wells — still serving time for the 2002 killing — was sentenced to six
more years after pleading guilty to a second-degree racketeering charge following a prosecution
by the state Attorney General’s Office.

In that case, state prosecutors said Wells had helped David “Duke” Allen, the imprisoned leader of
the Bloods’ Nine Trey Gangsters faction, run his gang from behind bars. T he Attorney General’s
Office has described Wells as an alleged Bloods gang member.

He was released from prison in February, records show.

Onofri also said two other suspects, Amir Armstrong and another he did not identify, are in the
hospital in critical and stable condition, respectively. He did not detail the charges facing the two.

A search of state court records did not show any prior felony convictions for Armstrong.

T he other two injured people who were previously in critical condition Sunday — including a 13-
year-old boy shot in the melee — have been upgraded to stable condition, Onofri said.

It is possible that some victims were injured by cops’ bullets as officers were shooting at the
suspects, officials said. How many shots were fired in all is still under investigation, they said.

T he fatal eruption of gunfire had a noteworthy impact in a city where gun violence is not
uncommon. By Sunday evening, Trenton Public Schools had announced they would adopt
beginning Monday a “shelter-in-place” policy, barring access to school buildings by anyone other
than students or staff.

T he gunfire rang out at around 3 a.m. at the celebrated community event in T renton, when about
1,000 people were in attendance. Officials said they are still investigating what sparked the fight,
but noted that the arts event did not seem to be a target of the violence.

Authorities said Art All Night organizers were in the midst of shutting the event down when the
shots rang out.

Organizers could not immediately be reached for comment, but did post a message on the Art All
Night Facebook page saying they were “very shocked” and “deeply saddened” by the violence.

Reporter Thomas Moriarty contributed to this post.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Jersey Journal. All Rights Reserved. Used by NewsBank with permission.

 