Family pursues answers in death of theft suspect - Buffalo News, The
(NY) - January 14, 2019 - page 1
January 14, 2019 | Buffalo News, The (NY) | By Aaron Besecker News Staff Reporter | Article | Page 1

M arcus Neal came back to Western New York last fall and was reconnecting with old friends in
M arcus N eal
the place where he grew up.

T hree months later, the 47-year-old was dead, killed by three bullets from a Buffalo police officer’s
gun.

Police have told Neal’s family he was seen shoplifting “small personal items” from Wegmans on
Amherst Street late on Dec. 12. About 20 minutes later and roughly a mile away, following a
pursuit by police, he was shot on the roof of a garage in Black Rock.

He died the next day.

His family has hired a law firm to investigate his death, according to his father, Charles B. Neal III.

“From what they said the violation was, such a minor violation, I think that they created a scenario
that was unnecessary,” Neal said of police. “T otally unnecessary.”

According to the police department’s account of what happened – which Neal’s family members
note has not been accompanied by the disclosure of any corroborating evidence – he was
identified as a shoplifting suspect at the supermarket. An on-duty police officer who was at the
store was flagged down by employees and then put a description out over the police radio. A man
said to match that description was seen nearby on Grote Street. Officers pursued him, and he
eventually made it onto the roof of a four-car garage on Gladstone Street.

Police said Neal had a knife and began cutting himself. At some point, they used pepper spray on
him. According to police, he charged at them with the knife. T hat’s when Officer Joseph Meli shot
him twice in the abdomen and once in the leg. It took Buffalo firefighters about 15 minutes to get
Neal down from the roof after the call of “shots fired” went out over police radio and before he
was put in an ambulance.

T he Police Department says the officer had no choice but to shoot Neal because he was armed
and charged at officers. Neal’s death remains under investigation by the Erie County District
Attorney’s Office and the Buffalo Police Department, according to spokesmen for each office.

M arcus Neal was born in Washington, D.C., but grew up in the Niagara Falls area, his father said.
M arcus N eal
He attended schools in the Falls and in the Niagara Wheatfield School District before he moved
away in his 20s.

He had been back in the area since September. He had been living in Roanoke, Va., helping to take

care of his mother, and was most recently in Florida, where his father lives, for several months.

While living in Florida, Marcus wasn’t able to find any real full-time work and picked up some jobs off
Craigslist, according to his father.

T he original purpose for coming back to New York was for a court date to settle an outstanding
traffic ticket near Rochester. His ultimate goal was to regain his driver’s license, which he had done,
his father said.

Marcus had found a small place to live on T onawanda Street. He has relatives in the Falls area,
including a stepbrother, an uncle and a grandmother.

He also has a son who lives across the border in Hamilton, Ont.

“Marcus was there in Buffalo to try to accomplish some personal things, to reconnect, to spend
more time with his son,” Charles Neal said.

Several of Marcus’ friends from Western New York made the trek to Virginia for a memorial
service on Dec. 22, he said.

During the years he lived in Roanoke, he had multiple run-ins with police, with a criminal history
dating back to 1998 in Virginia, according to public records.

Neal’s convictions included petit larceny, burglary and resisting arrest, according to records from
the Roanoke City General District Court and the Roanoke City Circuit Court. He was acquitted of a
charge of assault on a law enforcement officer in January 2011, according to court records.

James Bible, an attorney in the Seattle area, was Marcus N eal
represents families in wrongful death cases involving alleged police misconduct.

M arcus Neal’s uncle by marriage. He also

Now, the type of situation the lawyer helps other people with has hit home.

“Anytime something like this happens, it’s important to recognize that human life is lost,” he said.
“Marcus has a family. Marcus was loved dearly.”

Bible knows Marcus N eal
M arcus Neal’s 95-year-old grandfather, who gets down on his knees and prays every
night before bed. When his grandfather learned of Neal’s death, he shook and cried uncontrollably,
Bible said.

Marcus’ death also shook his aunt, Bible’s wife, “to her very core.”

“Because they know how special he was to all of them,” Bible said.

“And anytime something happens like this in a community where law enforcement – somebody
that is paid for with our taxes – actually takes somebody else’s life, the entire community should
take pause,” he said, “and we should all figure out how we can do better, as opposed to simply
being in a space where we say all those other things about a person prior to the investigation,

which often happens with law enforcement.”

Copyrig ht (c) 2019 The Buffalo News

 