Grandview man dies after altercation with police - Jackson County
Advocate (Grandview, MO) - July 5, 2018 - page A1
July 5, 2018 | Jackson County Advocate (Grandview, MO) | Mary Wilson | Page A1

Larry San Nicolas , 60, was a father, a grandfather and a friend to many neighbors in the
Larry San N icolas
Belvidere community of Grandview. However, tragedy struck on the afternoon of Sunday, July 1,
when San Nicolas began acting irrationally and violently, causing his family to seek the help of the
Grandview Police Department.

According to Sgt. Bill Lowe with the Missouri State Highway Patrol, MSHP was called onto the
scene at 148th Terrace and Bellaire Avenue in Grandview on reports of an officer-involved
shooting shortly after 3 p.m. on Sunday.

“At about 2:40, the Grandview Police Department was notified of a disturbance at a residence off
of 148th Terrace here in Grandview,” said Lowe. “It involved a male individual that was acting
despondent as well as some irra-tional behavior. At that point in time, they notified their officers
and they responded to the residence.”

When police arrived on scene, according to Lowe, every member of the family had exited the
residence and was across the street. T he officers attempted to speak to San Nicolas, who came
out of the residence carrying two samurai-type swords.

“T hey attempted several verbal commands for him to stop and to put the swords down, and he
failed to do so,” said Lowe. “At that point in time, one of the Grandview police officers fired two
less-lethal rounds of bean bags. Both those bean bags struck the individual and did not have an
effect.”

Lowe said that San Nicolas continued to rush toward the officers in a threatening manner. A
second officer on scene responded by firing rounds toward the individual in order to stop the
threat. Once no longer a threat, the officers rendered aid until an ambulance was on scene.

San Nicolas was transported to a local hospital where he later died from the injuries sustained. No
officer was injured in the altercation.

“Obviously, emotionally it’s a trying time (for the officers),” said Lowe. “T hey responded heroically
as well as compassionately in order to attempt to save this individual’s life. Anytime something like
this happens to a citizen, it is tragic. T he family was worried enough that they called 911.”

Lowe added that the investigation is still ongoing into what transpired. It was unclear how many
times San Nicolas was shot by the officer, and officers were unsure if something medically was
wrong with him.

T he investigation was handed over to MSHP due to the officer-involved shooting, which is typical in

order for neutrality on both sides.

Copyrig ht 2018, Jackson County Advocate, All Rights Reserved.

 