Officers named in shooting of Rochester man - Foster's Daily Democrat
(Dover, NH) - August 28, 2018
August 28, 2018 | Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, NH) | Kyle Stucker

ROCHEST ER — Authorities on Tuesday released the identities of the Rochester police officers and
New Hampshire State Police troopers involved in the Aug. 20 shooting death of 38-year-old
Doug las H eath.
Doug las H eath

Rochester Detective Geoff Moore and Officer Michael Lambert discharged their firearms during
the incident, as did Troopers Haden Wilber and Nathaniel Goodwin, according to a statement from
Attorney General Gordon J. MacDonald, New Hampshire Police Col. Christopher J. Wagner and
Rochester Police Chief Paul T oussaint.

Heath died as a result of multiple gunshot wounds during the shooting, which occurred after
authorities attempted to bring Heath into custody on four Rochester drug warrants and one
Maine State Police warrant, according to the AG. T he state's chief medical examiner determined
during an autopsy last week that Heath's manner of death was a homicide, which is defined as the
killing of one person by another.

T oussaint said Tuesday the officers involved will be on paid leave for an undetermined period of
time that is dependent on both the ongoing investigation as well as the officers' mental well-being.
T oussaint also said Moore and Lambert are participating in various support programs and peer
support groups, he said.

"We are doing everything we can to provide them with support because it is a tough situation for
any officer to be in," said T oussaint.

T he AG's office has said the exact circumstances surrounding the incident remain actively under
investigation. A report regarding whether the use of deadly force was justified will be released once
the investigation is completed, authorities have said.

Moore, Lambert, Wilber and Goodwin were all placed on paid administrative leave following the
shooting in accordance with standard protocols, according to MacDonald.

Heath, of Colby Street in Gonic, had outstanding warrants related to heroin, cocaine and
buprenorphine-naloxone charges at the time of his death, court records show.

According to the AG, police pursued Heath after spotting him a little after 3 p.m. on Aug. 20.
Around 3:15 p.m. that day, Heath's car crashed at the intersection of Oak Street and Route 125.
Heath exited the vehicle from the passenger side of the car, and there was an exchange of gunfire
between Heath and the two Rochester officers and two State Police troopers, the AG has said.

Heath was struck by gunfire and died at the scene. T he AG has said a gun was found near his body.

A civilian video of the exchange of gunfire was shared across social media platforms following the
incident.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Foster's Daily Democrat, All rights reserved.

 