This time, fatal hail of gunfire ends chase - New Hampshire Union
Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) - August 22,
2018 - page 1
August 22, 2018 | New Hampshire Union Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) | TODD
FEATHERS New Hampshire Union Leader | Page 1

A long criminal history: Before Monday night’s pursuit, Douglas H eath
Police on June 11.

Doug las Heath had eluded Maine State

ROCHEST ER -- Before he was killed in a gunfight with police Monday night, Douglas H eath
been on the run for nearly four months.

Doug las Heath had

After Rochester police arrested him for possession of heroin, Suboxone, and cocaine on April 13,
Heath appeared for a bail hearing at Strafford County Superior Court. He spoke with the clerk and
signed documents, including a voluntary agreement to waive extradition from Maine, where he
lived,

But then Heath, a 38-year-old father of three who had addresses listed in New Hampshire and
Maine, left the courthouse before his hearing and didn’t return, according to court records.

T he court issued a warrant for his arrest, and on June 11 police in Sanford, Maine, spotted Heath
driving a car and attempted to stop him, according to Maine State Police spokesman Stephen
McCausland. Heath fled on Route 202 toward Lebanon, Maine, and after several miles officers
gave up the chase.

T hey tracked his car to a home on Second Street in Lebanon and learned that Heath had fled the
home on foot and likely been picked up by another person, McCausland said.

On Monday in Rochester, Heath again tried to evade police when they attempted to stop him.
After a 20-minute car chase, his escape ended in a crash at Oak Street and Route 125.

Heath got out of the vehicle through the passenger side and exchanged gunfire with Rochester
officers and state police troopers, Attorney General Gordon MacDonald said. No police were
injured, but Heath was killed.

An autopsy is scheduled for T hursday. Senior Assistant Attorney General Peter Hinckley said the
incident remains under investigation.

Heath had a previous criminal history in Strafford County which included drug, firearm, and
domestic violence charges. At times, it appeared Heath was on a path to recovery, according to
court records, but he struggled with drug use.

In 2006, while on probation for an earlier drug conviction, police caught Heath with cocaine, crack

cocaine, and two revolvers. He was sentenced to 38 months in prison and three years supervised
release.

His probation was terminated early, though, after his probation officer determined that he had
maintained sobriety and “made a favorable transition to the community and appears to be
maintaining a law-abiding lifestyle.”

In 2016, Rochester police arrested Heath for choking a woman in a domestic dispute but the case
did not go to trial because the victim never appeared.

tfeathers@unionleader.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, Union Leader Corp.

 