
 
HOOVER, Ala. (AP) - The Latest on the fatal shooting at an Alabama mall (all times local):  

9:50 p.m.  

carry a weapon for self-defense.  

The father of a black man killed by a police officer during an Alabama mall shooting says his son had a permit to

Twenty-one-year-old Emantic "EJ" Bradford Jr. was fatally shot by a police officer responding to the Thanksgiving

night shooting that wounded an 18-year-old and 12-year-old. Hoover police initially thought Bradford, who was

carrying a handgun, was responsible. Authorities later said it was unlikely that Bradford had done the shooting.  

Bradford's father, Emantic Bradford Sr., spoke to The Associated Press on Saturday night from his family's home.

He said it was hurtful that police portrayed his son as the shooter.  

The family wants to know if there is police body camera footage from the shooting. Hoover police have not

confirmed to the Associated Press whether such footage exists.  

____  

2:25 p.m.  

bystander.  

____  

10 p.m.  

About 200 people marched through an Alabama shopping mall to protest the shooting death of a man whom

police erroneously believed was the gunman who shot and wounded two people.  

The protesters gathered at the spot at the Riverchase Galleria mall in suburban Birmingham where 21-year-old

Emantic "EJ" Bradford Jr. was shot and killed by a police officer who was responding to reports of gunfire.  

Police initially thought Bradford was responsible for shooting two people at the mall but later retracted that

statement. They later said it was unlikely that Bradford had done the shooting.  

Police are now searching for a gunman who they believed shot and wounded an 18-year-old male and a 12-year-old

The protesters held a moment of silence for Bradford at the spot where he was killed. Bradford's stepmother

Cynthia described him as a respectful young man and said he was the son of a Birmingham police officer.  

Police say a man shot and killed by a police officer at an Alabama shopping mall was "likely" not the person who

shot a teenager that evening.  

Twenty-one-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford was shot and killed by a police officer responding to the

Thanksgiving night shooting that wounded an 18-year-old and 12-year-old.  

Captain Gregg Rector said in a Friday news release that new evidence suggests that while Bradford "may have

been involved in some aspect of the altercation, he likely did not fire the rounds that injured the 18-year-old victim."

Police said that an officer shot Bradford because he was seen "brandishing a handgun" while fleeing the scene.  

Rector said they now believe that more than two individuals were involved in the altercation that started the

shooting and a gunman is at large.  

____  

6:39 a.m.  

12-year-old girl.  

A man was shot and killed by a police after a fight at an Alabama mall resulted in gunfire that injured a teen and a

A police statement said the shooting occurred shortly before 10 p.m. Thursday at the Riverchase Galleria in

Hoover, outside Birmingham.  

The statement said two Hoover officers in the mall confronted a 21-year-old man from Hueytown with a gun and

one of the officers shot and killed him. His name has not been released.  

An 18-year-old was taken to a Birmingham hospital for treatment of serious injuries.  

Capt. Greg Rector said in a news conference a 12-year-old girl struck by gunfire was hospitalized. She was reported

Identifier / keyword:

US Mall Shooting Alabama Alabama United States North America Birmingham

General news Shootings Violent crime Crime

Publication title:

AP English Language News (includes AP 50 State Report); New York

in stable condition at Children's Hospital.  

A mall security officer said the mall reopened at 6 a.m. Friday.  

___  

This story corrects dead man's age to 21.  

Credit: By The Associated Press 
 
 
