
 
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep —and lets us get

paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our

Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. 

‘The Second Amendment Is Not Intended for Black People’ 

Trevor Noah on Tuesday had harsh words for the American criminal justice system. He’d heard the news that the

Alabama authorities had shot and killed a black man, Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr., after wrongly assuming he

was the gunman in a Thanksgiving mall shooting. 

Noah said that the death of Bradford, an Army veteran, was only the latest reminder of how hard it is for black

people to rely on law enforcement —or the law at all, for that matter. “You start to realize that really, the Second

Amendment is not intended for black people,” he said. “It’s an uncomfortable thing to say, but it’s the truth.” 

Noah was particularly amazed that the victim had served in the Army, and that Bradford’s father is a police officer. 

At a campaign stop on behalf of Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith in Tupelo, Miss. —the birthplace of Elvis Presley

—President Trump said that in his youth, people used to tell him he looked like Presley, only with light hair. 

Jimmy Fallon thought that was funny, and took it as inspiration to create a White House-themed parody of

Noah responded sarcastically to news that General Motors will idle five plants across the United States and

Canada, something that President Trump had suggested he would not let happen. The company worded its

announcement carefully, saying it would not allocate products to those plants after March —but avoiding the world

[Video: Watch on YouTube. ] 

‘Jailhouse Rock’ 

[Video: Watch on YouTube. ] 

“Jailhouse Rock.” 

Noah Wants to Steal G.M.’s Euphemism 

[Video: Watch on YouTube. ] 

“close.” 

Colbert in the Hot Seat 

[Video: Watch on YouTube. ] 

After returning from Thanksgiving vacation, Stephen Colbert on Tuesday aired a show of all never-before-seen

content that had been taped far in advance. In these clips he flipped the script on himself, allowing Jon Stewart

and Neil deGrasse Tyson to sit behind his desk and put their questions to him. 

Stewart didn’t get an answer when he asked Colbert, point blank, which of his children he loved the most. But he

engaged Colbert on one of the host’s favorite topics: President Trump. 

“I don’t think Donald Trump likes the job of president, but he likes the trappings of power,” Stewart said. “I don’t

think he likes the, like, ‘Why are you talking to me about energy policy? Just get the shot of me going onto the

helicopter looking like a Mafia don.” 

“Right,” Colbert said. “Why are you asking me any questions? You know, why are you asking me two questions?

One question’s O.K., but two questions —then you might mention that I just lied to you.” 

The Punchiest Punchlines (All-Fallon Edition) 

What We’re Excited About on Wednesday Night 

about the federal government’s recent climate report . 

Also, Check This Out 

Former Vice President Al Gore will sit down with Noah on Wednesday. He’ll most likely have some things to say

A new Ariana Grande video; the death of Stephen Hillenburg, the creator of “SpongeBob SquarePants”; and Roald

Dahl on Netflix —it’s all in Tuesday’s pop-culture roundup . 

Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: 

The 100 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now 

Stream These Dark Political Thrillers 

Non-Depressing Documentaries on Netflix 

Credit: Giovanni Russonello 
 
 
