
 
HOOVER, Ala. —Protesters on Saturday marched through an Alabama shopping mall where police killed a black

man they later acknowledged was not the triggerman in a Thanksgiving night shooting that wounded two people. 

An officer shot and killed 21-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford, Jr. of Hueytown while responding to the

Thursday mall shooting. Police said Bradford was fleeing the scene with a handgun. 

Hoover police initially told reporters Bradford had shot a teen at the mall, but later retracted the statement. 

"We knew that was false," said stepmother Cynthia Bradford when she heard police were blaming him for the

shooting. She described her stepson, who went by E.J., as a respectful young man whose father worked at a jail for

the Birmingham Police Department. 

Hoover Police Captain Gregg Rector said investigators now believe that more than two people were involved in the

initial fight ahead of the shooting, and that "at least one gunman" is still at large who could be responsible. Police

said while Bradford "may have been involved in some aspect of the altercation, he likely did not fire the rounds that

injured the 18-year-old victim." Rector said police regret that their initial statement about Bradford was not

accurate. 

Bradford was killed. 

The shooting remains under investigation, including whether Bradford played any role in the initial disturbance, 

The unanswered questions stirred emotions in the suburb outside the majority-black city of Birmingham. 

More than 200 demonstrators, including several relatives, chanted "E.J" and "no justice, no peace" as they marched

past Christmas shoppers at the mall. They held a moment of silence at the spot outside a shoe store where

Family members described their horror of finding out from social media that Bradford was dead. Video circulated

on social media of Bradford lying in a pool of blood on the mall floor. 

Speaking to The Associated Press on Saturday night from his family's home, Bradford's father Emantic Bradford

Sr. called his son, "a good kid, a very good kid." 

Bradford Sr. said his son had a permit to carry a weapon for self-defense. He said he doesn't know exactly what

happened at the mall, but said it was hurtful that police portrayed his son as the shooter. 

"They were so quick to rush to judgment. ... I knew my son didn't do that. People rushed to judgment. They

shouldn't have done that," Bradford Sr. said. 

to the AP whether such footage exists. 

Family members said they plan to ask to see body camera footage from officers. Hoover police have not confirmed

Carlos Chaverst, an activist in Birmingham who organized the protest, said that when authorities acknowledged

that the person killed was not the actual shooter, "that sent us in an uproar." More protests will be held in the

future to hold officials accountable, he added. 

"When we found out about this incident, there were questions from the jump. People were upset because a man

was shot and killed by police in our own backyard," he said. 

The incident began Thanksgiving night with a fight and shooting in suburban Birmingham at the Riverchase

Galleria, a mall crowded with Black Friday bargain hunters. An 18-year-old man was shot twice and a 12-year-old

bystander was shot in the back. Hoover police said Friday morning that the girl was in stable condition. 

The Alabama Law Enforcement Agency is investigating the incident since it is an officer-involved shooting. The

Hoover Police Department is conducting its own internal investigation. 
 
 
