
 
Nation 

HOOVER, Ala. - A man killed by a police officer after a Thanksgiving night shooting at an Alabama shopping mall,

was "likely" not the gunman who shot a teenager earlier that evening, police clarified Friday. 

The incident began with a fight and shooting Thanksgiving night in the glitzy mall crowded with Black Friday

bargain hunters. An 18-year-old was shot twice and a 12-year-old bystander was shot in the back. 

An officer responding to the scene then shot and killed 21-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford, Jr., of Hueytown,

who police said was fleeing the scene and brandishing a weapon. Police initially told reporters they thought

Bradford had shot the teen after a fight but retracted that statement Friday night. 

Vermont couple search for peacock among turkeys 

SPRINGFIELD, Vt. - A Vermont woman whose family peacock ran off with a flock of turkeys says she's hopeful to

get close enough to catch it with a net. 

The peacock belonging to Rene and Brian Johnson has been on the run for six weeks. 

On Wednesday, the Johnsons posted a message on the Vermont Fish and Wildlife Facebook page: "My peacock

has run off with the turkeys. Do you have any suggestions on how to catch the little twerp?" 

Rene Johnson told WCAX-TV she thinks the bird she calls Pea was lonely so it sought turkey companions. 

Genital mutilation ruling shocks women's advocates 

MINNEAPOLIS - Women's rights advocates said they were shocked when a federal judge in Michigan ruled this

week that a law protecting girls from genital mutilation was unconstitutional. They called his decision a serious

blow to girls' rights. Legal experts said the judge made clear that U.S. states have authority to ban the practice,

though only about half do. 

Dr. Jumana Nagarwala was among eight people charged in federal court in Michigan in connection with the genital

mutilation of nine girls from Michigan, Minnesota and Illinois between 2015 and 2017. 

Authorities alleged that mothers brought their girls to Nagarwala when they were roughly 7 years old for the

Nagarwala has denied any crime was committed and said she performed a religious custom on girls from her

Muslim sect, the India-based Dawoodi Bohra. 

Female circumcision; Genital mutilation

Alabama United States--US Michigan Vermont India Illinois Minnesota

Nagarwala, Jumana

Company / organization:

Name: Dawoodi Bohra; NAICS: 813110; Name: Facebook Inc; NAICS: 518210, 519130

procedure. 

From wire reports 
 
 
