
 
Publication: Stillman Advance, Stillman College, Tuscaloosa AL. 

In a disturbing update to yesterday's news about a shooting at a mall in the USA state of Alabama, local police now

believe that they shot and killed the wrong person in the immediate aftermath of the incident, and that the actual

Hoover police initially told reporters Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr, 21, had shot an 18-year-old at the mall on

Police now say they believe at least one gunman is still at large, who may be the one actually responsible for the

gunman may still be at large.  

Friday - but a day later retracted the statement.  

original shooting.  

A moment of silence was observed at the spot outside a shoe shop where Mr Bradford was killed. Bradford's

stepmother Cynthia described him as a respectful young man and said he was the son of a Birmingham police

officer. Hoover police spokesman Capt. Gregg Rector initially reported Bradford was in an argument with the 18-

year-old who was shot in the torso twice.  

Police said while Bradford "may have been involved in some aspect of the altercation, he likely did not fire the

rounds that injured the 18-year-old victim".  

More than two people were involved in the dispute, police say.  

A man was shot and killed by a police after a fight at an Alabama mall resulted in gunfire that injured a teen and a

12-year-old girl.  

Demonstrators gathered in protest of police violence after authorities admit that the suspect they killed following a

shooting at an Alabama mall was " likely " not the actual shooter.  

Police do not know how the confrontation began, but said they did not believe the 18-year-old was armed.  

One shopper told the television station WBRC that she was buying jewelry at a kiosk when she heard three bangs

and people started screaming and running for the exits as officers ran toward the gunfire.  

Stray Bullet Kills Anti-Gun Violence Essay Winner, 13 Authorities say four shell casings found outside Sandra's

home were fired from the handgun, the Journal Sentinel reported. Bernice Parks , Sandra's mother, told The

Milwaukee Journal Sentinelthat her daughter was "everything this world is not".  

It is unclear where Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr. was during the shooting.  

Family members described their horror of finding out from social media that Bradford was dead. "They shouldn't

have done that", Bradford Sr said.  

The protest was organized by Carlos Chaverst Jr., president of the Birmingham activist group Justice League, who

are demanding that the body camera footage from the incident be released.  

"They shot the wrong man!" another woman said, consoling the aunt.  

The initial report, Fuentes said, reflects the "pressure on police and authorities when there's an officer-involved

shooting to get out as much information as quickly as they can, even if it involves some kind of speculation or

they're jumping to a conclusion".  

by... His name has not been released.  

Riverchase Galleria Officer-involved Shooting Update The Hoover Police Department was informed this afternoon

Bradford had photos of himself in Army uniform posted on Facebook, and he described himself as a combat

Crump said Hoover police had tarnished Bradford's character by "jumping to conclusions" that he was a criminal

Neither a police spokesman nor officials with the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency responded Saturday to

engineer.  

because he was a black man with a gun.  

questions about the search and investigation.  

Company / organization:

Name: Facebook Inc; NAICS: 518210, 519130; Name: Stillman College; NAICS:

Credit: Steven Clarke 
 
 
