Merrimack man killed in - officer-involved - New Hampshire Union
Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) - November 29,
2018 - page 004
November 29, 2018 | New Hampshire Union Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) |
KIMBERLY HOUGHTON Union Leader Correspondent | Page 004

MERRIMACK — A local man was killed during an officer-involved shooting early Thursday morning
in Maine.

Authorities have identified the man as Adrian B unker

Adrian B unker, 37, of Merrimack.

According to the Bangor Daily News, the shooting occurred before 3:30 a.m. Thursday during a
traffic stop near Stillwater Avenue in Old T own, Maine.

Bunker’s gray Silverado pickup truck was pulled over when an armed confrontation took place
between Bunker and Officer Joseph Decoteau of the Old T own Police Department.

Bunker was killed during the confrontation. Decoteau was not injured. Details of what took place
during the traffic stop have not been released. T he Maine Attorney General’s office is investigating
the shooting.

T he Bangor Daily News, reported Decoteau has been placed on paid administrative leave pending
a review by the department, which is protocol for an officer-involved shooting.

In an online statement from the Old T own Police Department, a portion of Stillwater Avenue was
closed for about seven hours on Thursday while police investigated.

“T here is no risk to the public,” said the department.

Although Bunker lived in Merrimack, he was from Cambridge, Maine, and attended Piscataquis
Community High School in Guilford, Maine.

According to his Facebook page, Bunker was previously enrolled at the Motorcycle Mechanics
Institute, and had most recently been employed at Hitachi Cable America Inc.

Online phone records indicate that Bunker resided at 75 Patten Road.

T he officer involved in the shooting, Decoteau, is relatively new to the police force in Maine.

According to a previous post on the police department’s Facebook page, Decoteau graduated
from the Maine Criminal Justice Academy in May of this year, ranking second in his class.

NashuaNews@unionleader.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, Union Leader Corp.

 