Pittsylvania County deputies called in to help - Danville Register & Bee
(VA) - April 14, 2018
April 14, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | Ceillie Simkiss

Shortly after a fatal officer-involved shooting of a 25-year-old man in Danville, more than a dozen
Pittsylvania County officers were called to help with a large crowd gathered at the local hospital,
dispatch logs show.

Pittsylvania County Sheriff Mike Taylor confirmed this week that sheriff's deputies responded to a
Juan Markee Jones .
request for mutual aid at SOVAH Health-Danville following the shooting of Juan Markee Jones

He said the gathering was peaceful, and no arrests were made.

T he series of events began when Danville officers were called at about 1 a.m. April 7 to a parking
lot in the 2300 block of North Main Street for the report of a domestic assault. While responding,
the caller — described by police as a 22-year-old woman — told dispatchers she went back to her
home in the 200 block of Sunset Drive "in an attempt to escape her attacker," police reported.

A video released Tuesday shows multiple Danville officers confront Jones on Sunset Drive as he sits
in his car and then tries to back away as officers yell at him to stop. At some point, after officers
repeatedly told him to step out of his car, Jones backs the vehicle into a wooded area and steps
out.

Jones, with his back to the officers, abruptly whirls around toward them with his hands
outstretched.

T hat's when police open fire and Jones drops to the ground.

Jones was transported to SOVAH Health-Danville where he was pronounced dead.

When asked, Danville Emergency Communication Director Steve Dishman said he couldn't release
the Danville police dispatch records since it's part of an ongoing investigation.

Pittsylvania County 911 dispatch notes obtained by the Danville Register & Bee show a timeline of
events from the outside agency asked to lend mutual aid.

However, Dishman said resource requests do not always come through a dispatch center.

"A lot of times, they'll call each other and get what they need," Dishman said.

T he first call comes into Pittsylvania County's 911 center at 2:04 a.m.

T he caller is identified as Cooper by the dispatcher.

At 2:05 a.m., the dispatcher notes a request for a K-9 unit for firearms.

T he first Pittsylvania County Sheriff's Office deputy — only identified only as unit 125 — arrives at
the scene of the shooting in Danville. It is now 2:16 a.m.

One minute later, the dispatcher notes there was an officer-involving shooting and that a Danville
Police Department major — only identified as Burke — asked for assistance at SOVAH Health-
Danville in reference to a "large crowd."

"Originally, they were sending units to Sunset, but from there, it looks like there was a call to send
extra units at the hospital," Pittsylvania County Emergency Services Director Jim Davis said Friday.
"T he units who were already on Sunset went over to the hospital."

Unit 126 arrives at the hospital at 2:33 a.m.

It's at 2:39 a.m. when another county officer — unit 121 — calls T aylor.

At 3 a.m., unit 121 requests for dispatch to put out a call for "anyone who can respond to DRMC."
(T he hospital was known for years as Danville Regional Medical Center and commonly referred to
simply as DRMC.)

A minute later dispatchers are told a police SWAT  team is not needed for the situation, logs show.

T aylor could not say how many people were gathered outside the hospital. Danville Police
Department Lt. Mike Wallace told the Register & Bee he did not know anything about the
gathering.

T he number of county officers grows to 14 at SOVAH Health-Danville to assist with the crowd. It's
now 4:14 a.m.

T aylor would not specify why so many officers were sent, saying that he could not speak to tactics.

By 6:24 a.m., units begin leaving from the scene at the hospital.

Back at 205 Sunset Drive, a Pittsylvania County K-9 arrives at 8:05 a.m. It's not clear if this K-9 is
from the request put out at 2:05 a.m. for firearms.

T he K-9 only stays for 10 minutes and leaves at 8:15 a.m., according to the dispatch notes.

T he last two county units left the hospital at 12:50 p.m.

Elizabeth Harris, marketing director of SOVAH Health, did not return multiple requests for
comment.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 