Community Demands Answers In Police Killing Of - Michigan
Chronicle, The (Detroit, MI) - April 10, 2018
April 10, 2018 | Michigan Chronicle, The (Detroit, MI) | Nigel Roberts

Activists in south central Virginia were demanding to know exactly what led to the fatal police
shooting of a 25-year-old Black man from their community early Sunday morning.

See Also: North Carolina Cop Kills 60-Year-Old Black Man Within Minutes After A Traffic Stop

Approximately 100 demonstrators gathered Monday night at Danville's City Hall, some carrying
signs that read "We want answers" and "Black Lives Matter," to press officials for the details
surrounding the killing of Juan Markee Jones

Juan Markee Jones , GoDanRiver.com reported.

T he Virginia State Police have joined the investigation into the shooting that happened around 1
a.m. Sunday, according to the Washington Post. Danville police officers were responding to a
domestic disturbance when they encountered Jones, who was suspected of attacking a woman, a
statement from the police department said.

Jones allegedly tried to flee from the officers by driving to a nearby wooded area, police said. When
confronted again, he exited the vehicle but refused to show his hands, according to police. An
attempt to Taser him failed, police said. Jones was shot when he turned on the officers in a
"threatening" manner, according to the police version. No officers were injured in the incident.
Initial reports do not indicate whether Jones was armed, but chances are if he had a gun it would
have been emphasized by police.

After the shooting, Jones was transported to a hospital where he died, WDBJ-T V reported. His
remains were awaiting an autopsy in Roanoke. T he state police was expected to report its findings
to the Commonwealth's Attorney for review.

"It does not make sense," demonstrator Michelle T rent toldGoDanRiver.com about the shooting.
She urged calm and called on her fellow protesters to voice their concerns to local elected officials.
"Let them see. Let them hear your voice," she added.

Danville Police Department Chief Scott Booth addressed the protesters, as many of them
drowned him out with their angry shouts. He declined to identify the officers involved in the
shooting, but Booth vowed to reveal their names in the coming days.

SEE ALSO:

White Man Ran T he Biggest 'Black Lives Matter' Facebook Page And Profited Over Six Figures

Here's How Much Devonte Hart's Parents Reportedly Profited From Adopting Black Children

[ione_media_gallery src="https://newsone.com" id="3440564" overlay="true"]

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Michig an Chronicle

 