Prosecutor files charge in police shooting of - Associated Press State
Wire: Tennessee (TN) - September 28, 2018
September 28, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN) | JONATHAN MATTISE Associated Press

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — A white Tennessee police officer was charged with criminal homicide
T hursday after surveillance footage appeared to show him chasing a black man and opening fire
as the man fled from the officer in July.

And a newly released arrest affidavit says the officer was looking for a reason to stop a white
sedan, later mistakenly zeroed in on another car and then killed the armed fleeing man without
knowing who he was or whether he was connected to either vehicle.

Nashville District Attorney Glenn Funk said Thursday that he requested a warrant to charge officer
Andrew Delke in the death of 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
probable cause and signed Delke's arrest warrant after a magistrate judge ruled earlier T hursday
that there wasn't enough evidence.

Daniel H ambrick. A General Sessions judge found

T he incident reignited questions about policing of Nashville's black community. T he outcry has
stirred enough support to place a question on the city's November ballot about creating a citizen
oversight board for the police force.

Delke's attorney, David Raybin, said Delke is out on $25,000 bail, will plead not guilty and his
attorneys plan to "vigorously defend this case and put this matter to a jury."

Nashville Fraternal Order of Police President James Smallwood was shown in a video on the
organization's Facebook page condemning the charge.

"T his case is a politically inspired rush to judgment," Smallwood said. "T his is not a case of an
innocent, unarmed civilian shot for no reason."

T he video from a nearby school released last month shows the 25-year-old officer chase and
shoot Hambrick on July 26 as Hambrick fled on a sidewalk near an apartment complex.

According to the arrest affidavit presented in court T hursday, Delke was tailing a white sedan while
looking for stolen vehicles and known juvenile offenders, but found the car wasn't stolen. He
"continued to follow to see if he could develop a reason to stop the Impala," and never saw the
driver or determined how many people were inside, it says.

Delke turned on his emergency lights as the car pulled onto the interstate, but followed policy and
didn't pursue. Instead, he followed from a distance, the affidavit says. Eventually, Delke lost track
of the car and pulled into an apartment parking lot and mistook a different white four-door sedan
for the one he was seeking, it says. Several people were in the area as Delke stopped nearby, one
of them Hambrick, who began to run, the affidavit says.

Delke chased Hambrick and yelled at him to stop, though the officer didn't know the fleeing man's
identity, the affidavit says. Delke believed Hambrick may have been connected to the car Delke
misidentified, but didn't know for sure, the affidavit says.

Delke saw a gun in Hambrick's hand as the chase continued, and Hambrick wouldn't drop it despite
Delke's instructions, the affidavit says. Delke "stopped, assumed a firing position, and aimed his
service weapon," firing four times, it says. One shot hit Hambrick's back, another his torso and a
third the back of his head. T he fourth shot missed him.

Funk said the charging method lets the case be presented in open court as transparently as
possible, since grand jury proceedings are secret. T he case will be presented to a judge, who will
decide whether to send it to a grand jury.

Nashville Mayor David Briley, who announced a comprehensive review of policing procedures when
the video was released publicly last month, said he fully supports the police, but officers must
account for their actions when they have been accused of misconduct.

Daniel H ambrick's mother to express my condolences for her loss,"

"In August, I spoke with Daniel H ambrick
Briley said in a statement. "I assured her that we would show respect for the life of her son,
because his life mattered. At that time, Ms. Hambrick asked for justice for Daniel. T he District
Attorney's decision to file charges in this case is a necessary step toward that end."

American Civil Liberties Union of Tennessee Executive Director Hedy Weinberg called Delke's arrest
a "crucial first step in setting the wheels of accountability and justice in motion," while cautioning
that Delke must receive due process.

Nashville Police Chief Steve Anderson offered condolences to Hambrick's family. He also said the
shooting will impact Delke and his family forever.

Anderson said he respects the justice system in Davidson County and the state.

He said because of Thursday's action, Delke has been decommissioned, which means he has had
to turn over his gun but is working at a desk job and is still getting paid.

Raybin, Delke's attorney, said the officer was "following the law and his training" and was
protecting himself, other officers on the way, and the public.

NAACP Tennessee State Conference President Gloria Sweet-Love said that if Delke is convicted,
then real justice will be served.

"When you kill a young black boy, you are killing a young citizen and you are making it difficult for us
to live as one," Sweet-Love said T hursday. 

____

Kimberlee Kruesi in Nashville contributed to this report.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 