The Latest: Attorney: Officer followed law in - Associated Press:
Clarksville Metro Area (TN) - September 27, 2018
September 27, 2018 | Associated Press: Clarksville Metro Area (TN)

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — T he Latest on a Nashville police officer charged in the shooting death of
a black man. (all times local):

T he attorney for a Nashville police officer who fatally shot a fleeing man says his client was
following the law and his training.

At a news conference T hursday, attorney David Raybin said he plans to vigorously defend officer
Andrew Delke against the criminal homicide charge that he faces. Raybin said he wants the case to
go to a jury.

Nashville District Attorney Glenn Funk secured a warrant Thursday charging Delke in the death of
Daniel H ambrick.
25-year-old Daniel H ambrick

Raybin said Delke is out on a $25,000 bail, adding that the officer appreciates support from fellow
officers and the community and is looking forward to being vindicated.

Raybin suggested that there may be additional video footage of the incident.

A newly released affidavit says a Nashville police officer who shot a fleeing man had been pursuing
a car that he mistook for another, and wasn't sure the man he killed was connected to either
vehicle.

T he affidavit was released Thursday by court officials the case of officer Andrew Delke. Nashville
District Attorney Glenn Funk secured a warrant Thursday charging Delke with criminal homicide in
the death of 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
Hambrick and opening fire as the man fled from the officer in July.

Daniel H ambrick. Surveillance footage appeared to show Delke chasing

T he court document says incident began when Delke tailed a white sedan while looking for stolen
vehicles and known juvenile offenders, though he found the car wasn't stolen. It says he "continued
to follow to see if he could develop a reason to stop the Impala," in which he never saw the driver
or determined how many people were inside.

4:30 p.m.

___

4:15 p.m.

___

2 p.m.

A prosecutor is seeking to charge a white Tennessee police officer with homicide after surveillance
footage appeared to show him chasing a black man and opening fire as the man fled from the
officer.

Nashville District Attorney Glenn Funk says he requested a warrant Thursday to charge officer
Andrew Delke in 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
Sessions judge found probable cause and signed Delke's arrest warrant Thursday after a
magistrate judge ruled earlier Thursday that there wasn't enough evidence.

Daniel H ambrick's death. T he Tennessean reports that a General

Surveillance video shows the 25-year-old officer chased and shot Hambrick in July as Hambrick ran
away. Authorities say it began with a traffic stop and Hambrick had a gun.

Funk says charging by warrant lets the case be presented in open court as transparently as
possible.

Copyrig ht 2018 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

 