Tennessee House OKs bill to limit police oversight - Associated Press
State Wire: Tennessee (TN) - March 14, 2019
March 14, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN) | JONATHAN MATTISE Associated Press

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — T he Tennessee House passed a bill Thursday to limit community
oversight boards that investigate police misconduct, setting up a showdown with the Senate over
whether those local panels should keep the ability to subpoena people to testify or turn over
evidence.

T he House's 66-26 vote comes in the infancy of an oversight board Nashville voted to create in
November. T he referendum was spurred by a fatal shooting of a fleeing armed black man by a
white Nashville officer in July. T he officer faces first-degree murder charges.

T he version the House passed would strip away subpoena power from the panels, while the
Senate could vote next week on a tweaked bill that still lets boards issue subpoenas, but only if a
board-hired special investigator, the police chief or head of police internal affairs gets a judge's
approval.

GOP Senate Speaker Randy McNally and Republican Rep. Michael Curcio of Dickson, the bill's
sponsor, both said the bill is likely headed to a conference committee, where House and Senate
lawmakers to sort out the difference. Curcio argued that the Senate version broadens subpoena
power.

During Thursday's floor discussion, some of Nashville Democratic state lawmakers argued that
the legislature wants to nullify the will of the city's voters. T he GOP-majority chamber voted down
an amendment to exempt Nashville from the requirements.

"Overturning elections just because you don't like the results is not what this body is here to do,"
said Rep. Bo Mitchell, a Nashville Democrat.

Curcio said the bill was setting up necessary guardrails for the oversight panels, including
prohibiting them from limiting membership based on demographics and ensuring that all
documents provided to them will be confidential.

Some Republicans also used the debate to argue that they are showing they have the backs of law
enforcement officials by limiting the boards.

"We stand with our law enforcement officers. We trust them to do their job," House Majority
Leader William Lamberth told reporters T hursday. "T here are lots of procedures in place right now
... to hold officers accountable if they step over the line."

Republican Gov. Bill Lee has already said he supports stripping subpoena power from the panels.

A Senate committee, meanwhile, opted last week to include limited subpoena power in their bill at
the request of the city of Knoxville, which has an oversight board, but has not used subpoena
power in about two decades of existence.

T he bill is ready for a Senate floor vote.

Memphis also has a police oversight panel, but that group lacks subpoena power.

Nashville's new oversight board has subpoena power and requires that four of the seven members
should live in "economically distressed communities."

T he Fraternal Order of Police opposed the measure and unsuccessfully attempted to block the
vote in the buildup of the election.

T he local police union has also been running a digital campaign to sway public opinion in favor of
Daniel H ambrick's fatal shooting in
Andrew Delke, the Nashville officer charged in 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
July.

T his week, the Nashville Fraternal Order of Police released a web video that shows a man shooting
a melon at close range, saying it's the type of handgun Hambrick was holding while Delke chased
him.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 