Nashville Cop Who Shot Black Man In The Back Is - Michigan Chronicle,
The (Detroit, MI) - September 27, 2018
September 27, 2018 | Michigan Chronicle, The (Detroit, MI) | Nigel Roberts

Prosecutors charged a Nashville cop who was seen in a graphic video gunning down a fleeing Black
man, two months after the fatal shooting.

See Also: Video Shows Cop Gunning Down Fleeing Man, But Police Downplay Possible Murder
Charges

T he district attorney's office filed a criminal homicide charge against Officer Andrew Delke on
T hursday for killing 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
back of the head, the Tennessean reported.

Daniel H ambrick—hitting him twice in the back and once in the

Delke surrendered to authorities but was released shortly on $25,000 bond. Meanwhile, the local
police union has vowed to fight to the end in the officer's defense.

On July 26, Delke approached the vehicle Hambrick was in, saying he believed it was the same car
he said he saw earlier that day driving erratically, according to police investigators. Hambrick and
two others fled from the officer.

Surveillance video, released by the prosecutor, showed 25-year-old Delke chasing Hambrick. T he
officer opens fire on Hambrick, who did not appear to turn toward Delke. After firing multiple
times, the officer circled the dying man while continuing to point his weapon at him.

T he Nashville Fraternal Order of Police argued that Delke was defending himself because he saw
Hambrick holding a handgun during the chase. However, the video did not appear to show
Hambrick carrying a weapon.

It's rare for a Nashville police officer to face homicide charges in the line of duty. T hat hasn't
happened for decades, according to the newspaper.

In fact, Delke almost avoided the homicide charge when a magistrate judge told the district
attorney earlier on Thursday that he presented insufficient evidence. But a general session judge
reversed that ruling.

SEE ALSO:

It's A Different World: Bill Cosby Reportedly 'Under Siege' In Prison

Activists Will Keep Botham Jean's Name Alive On His Birthday

[ione_media_gallery src="https://newsone.com" id="3828464" overlay="true"]

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Michig an Chronicle

 