MONTGOMERY COUNTY COUNCIL EXPRESSES CONCERN ABOUT - US
Fed News (USA) - June 12, 2018
June 12, 2018 | US Fed News (USA)

ROCKVILLE, Md., June 12 -- Montgomery County issued the following City Council news release:

T oday Montgomery County Council President Hans Riemer expressed concern on behalf of the
Council about the officer-involved shooting that occurred yesterday afternoon on Three Oaks
Drive in Silver Spring that resulted in the death of Robert Lawrence White
Robert Lawrence White. According to the
Montgomery County Police, Anand Badgujar, a 3rd District patrol officer, requested assistance
while investigating "a suspicious person nearby in the 9200 block of Three Oaks Drive." A physical
altercation ensued and Mr. White, a 41-year-old African American man, was shot by the officer and
died shortly thereafter.

"I want to assure the public that all nine Councilmembers are paying close attention to the officer-
involved shooting that occurred yesterday," said Council President Hans Riemer. "We have
requested the body camera footage that is part of the ongoing investigation. Anyone with
information regarding this shooting is asked to contact the Major Crimes Division and may remain
anonymous."

Police Chief Manger and investigative personnel have reviewed the body-worn camera footage of
the shooting and report that Officer Badgujar tried to talk with Mr. White and, once Mr. White
became combative, Officer Badgujar attempted to subdue him with pepper spray prior to the
shooting.

Following Montgomery County Police Department protocol, the Major Crimes Division will
investigate the shooting and turn their findings over to the Office of the State's Attorney for
Howard County. In an effort to ensure neutrality when investigating officer-involved shooting
cases, the Montgomery County Police Department has an established agreement with the Office
of the State's Attorney for Howard County to review the findings of the Major Crimes Division.

T he Internal Affairs Division of the Montgomery County Police Department will also conduct a
personnel investigation to see if there was any officer misconduct in this case.

T he Major Crimes Division of the Montgomery County Police Department can be reached at 240-
773-5070.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
content.services@htlive.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 US Fed News, via HT Dig ital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved.

 