
 
Dec. 14--BEMIDJI -- Police Chief Mike Mastin cautioned Friday against the spread of misinformation and reiterated

the need for a thorough investigation following the recent officer-involved shooting death of Vernon May. 

The shooting has caused significant backlash throughout the community, a demand for transparency from the

police department and Beltrami County Sheriff's Office, as well as a slew of rumors about what actually happened

during the traffic stop that resulted May's death. 

"It is important that people not promote a false narrative that spreads hate throughout our community," Mastin

said in a press release issued Friday afternoon. "Doing so does not allow our community to heal and move

In addition to warning against misinformation, Mastin reiterated the fact that the investigation will take time to

The Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is investigating the shooting, and once that is complete, it will

turn over its findings to the Beltrami County Attorney's Office. 

There is at least some video footage of the incident, and Mastin clarified in his release that the recording will be

made available at some point. At the same time, he cautioned that releasing the footage too soon after the fact

could have negative ramifications. 

"By releasing the video too soon, there is the risk of tainting a jury that may be required for a trial or grand jury,"

Mastin wrote. "I assure you that the body camera worn by the Bemidji Police Officer in this case will be made

forward." 

complete. 

public." 

In addition to the Bemidji police officer, a Beltrami County sheriff's deputy also was at the scene and fired his

weapon during the incident. The Beltrami County Sheriff's Office could not be immediately reached for any kind of

similar statement, and Mastin did not reference whether or not there would be a similar release of video footage

from the deputy's body camera or squad vehicle. 

May, 34, of Red Lake, died late on Wednesday, Nov. 28, during a traffic stop at the intersection of Ridgeway Avenue

Northwest and 30th Street, which is near the Paul Bunyan Mall. 

According to the original press release about the shooting, Bemidji Police Officer Bidal Duran initiated the traffic

stop, and Beltrami County Sheriff's Deputy Brandon Newhouse arrived shortly thereafter. May, who was in the back

seat of the vehicle, was asked to get out since he had a felony warrant. Both Duran and Newhouse noticed May

had a handgun, and Duran and May subsequently began to struggle for control of the weapon, according to the

release. Sometime after that, both Duran and Newhouse fired their weapons, which resulted in May's death. 

May's death has prompted multiple protests at the Law Enforcement Center in downtown Bemidji. The most recent

protest was scheduled for Friday afternoon. However, the protest had been planned in advance before Mastin's

statement was released. 

Here's the full text of Mastin's release: 

"Our community has experienced a tragedy. One life is lost and others are irreversibly changed forever. Their

families and friends have also suffered a great deal of grief, anger and worry. Understandably, everyone wants

answers as to what happened on the night of November 28th. 

"I recognize that people want the details of this case to be made public immediately, I do too. However, it is

important we all understand, a case of this significance takes time and due diligence to ensure nothing is missed.

It is also important to recognize that immediately after this incident the Bemidji Police Department requested an

independent investigation by a premier investigative agency, the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension. This

agency must review all of the evidence it has collected including, but not limited to; interviews, videos, physical

evidence, autopsy and toxicology reports. Each of these items take time for proper analysis. 

"Once the BCA investigation is complete it will be forwarded to the Beltrami County Attorney's Office for review. 

"There have been untruthful rumors spread across this community and social media by people who do not have

facts related to this case. It is important that people not promote a false narrative that spreads hate throughout

our community. Doing so does not allow our community to heal and move forward. In fact, it only serves to create

further division and destroy the bridges of trust we have already built. 

"There has been demand for immediate release of the video. I assure you that the body camera worn by the

Bemidji Police Officer in this case will be made public. However, we must consider several important details. By

releasing the video too soon, there is the risk of tainting a jury that may be required for a trial or grand jury. And, we

are considering the family of the deceased, once the video is made public it will be shared across all media

platforms. 

"The Bemidji Police Department believes strongly in building the resilience and strength of the Bemidji Community

through transparency and inclusion. It is imperative that we exercise patience and allow for a complete and

thorough investigation. Together, we all seek the truth." 

Cameras; False information; Police; Criminal investigations; Camcorders; Gossip

-- Chief Mastin 

CREDIT: By Jordan Shearer 
 
 
