$10M lawsuit filed in fatal Royal Oak police - Oakland Press, The
(Pontiac, MI) - November 27, 2018
November 27, 2018 | Oakland Press, The (Pontiac, MI) | Mike McConnell mmcconnell@digitalfirstmedia.com;
@mmcconnell01 on Twitter

Parents of a Royal Oak man fatally shot by police are seeking $10 million in a lawsuit, claiming
police used excessive force and violated his civil rights when he was was shot.

Cody Reynolds
Cody Reynolds , 20, was shot May 14 on Hudson Street near South Wilson in Royal Oak. T he
incidents leading up to the fatal shooting started after 3 a.m. when Reynolds' mother called 911
from their house in the 1000 block of Hoffman.

She told police Reynolds had stabbed her with a knife and struck his father in the head with a guitar.

"Reynolds was the victim of unlawful deadly force while unarmed, having been shot multiple times,
with the fatal gunshot wound to his back," the family's attorney A. Vince Colella said in the lawsuit,
which was filed Monday in U.S. District Court in Detroit.

T he suit names the city and Royal Oak Officer Ryan Addis as defendants.

City Attorney Dave Gillam said the city would make no comment on the suit.

"We're not going to litigate the case in the press," he said.

Police Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said he had no comments beyond those he made Aug. 16, when
the Oakland County prosecutor's office ruled that the shooting was a justifiable homicide. At that
time he said "the events that occurred on May 14 can only be described as heartbreaking … our
thoughts and prayers go out to the Reynolds family."

Oakland County Sheriff's detectives investigated the shooting, reviewing police-car video and audio
recordings before turning the case over to prosecutors for review.

Addis, a four-year veteran of the department, spotted Reynolds on nearby Hudson Street as the
officer was driving to investigate the stabbing, authorities said at the time.

Prosecutors said Addis tried to back away from Reynolds and ordered him to the ground. Reynolds
briefly complied, then suddenly sprang up and lunged at the officer. Prosecutors said the officer
believed Reynolds posed a deadly threat.

Later was it discovered that Reynolds no longer had the knife he used to stab his mother,
prosecutors said.

An autopsy by Dr. Bernardino Pacris, Oakland County's deputy medical examiner, said Reynolds

was shot in the chest and back a total of four times. Blood tests showed that Reynolds had the
hallucinogenic drug psilocin in his system, an illegal substance.

Colella said in a statement Monday that the medical examiner determined the first shot struck
Reynolds in the chest and was non-fatal.

"T hree other bullet wounds were found in his back," he said. "Why? T he report does not explain this
use of excessive and deadly force."

T he suit alleges that evidence -- including the autopsy report -- supports the claim that the officer
unlawfully shot Reynolds multiple times in his back without cause.

Reynolds' death came just over a month after motorist Antonino Gordon, 28, was fatally shot by a
Royal Oak officer April 10 at the White Castle at 13 Mile Road and Coolidge. Genesee County
prosecutors reviewed the case and ruled Aug. 1 that the shooting was justified.

T he two fatal police shootings by Royal Oak police this year were the first the department has seen
since an officer fatally shot a fraud suspect on Main Street in 1998. T hat shooting was ruled
accidental by the Oakland County prosecutor's office.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Oakland Press

 