Royal Oak police officer fatally shoots Royal Oak - Oakland Press, The
(Pontiac, MI) - May 14, 2018
May 14, 2018 | Oakland Press, The (Pontiac, MI) | Mike McConnell

A Royal Oak man was fatally shot by a police officer shortly after his mother called 911 early
Monday and reported he had stabbed her and hit his father in the head with a guitar.

Police said the call came in at 3:11 a.m. from a house in the 1000 block of Hoffman, a few blocks
west of Campbell Road.

A few minutes later, Royal Oak Police Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said an officer fired shots and
killed Cody Reynolds

Cody Reynolds , 20, on Hudson between McClean and South Wilson.

Cody Reynolds  a few blocks from his home," O'Donohue said
"One of the officers encountered Cody Reynolds
during a news conference. "T he officer exited his vehicle and asked Cody to stop. He didn't stop
and continued to approach the officer. He indicated he had just stabbed his mother."

T he officer told Reynolds to get on the ground, police said.

Once Reynolds closed the distance a bit between himself and the officer, police said he abruptly got
down on the ground, but quickly arose.

"He got up very aggressively and charged at the officer as the officer was backing up from him,"
O'Donohue said. "T he officer fired at Cody, striking him."

It was the second officer involved fatal shooting in Royal Oak in just over a month. T he Oakland
County Sheriff's Department is still investigating the fatal shooting of a motorist, Antonino
T homas Gordon, 27, of Commerce T ownship, at a White Castle after police said he fled a traffic
stop April 10.

In Monday's shooting, police said the officer involved had no way of knowing whether Reynolds
was armed at the time when the officer fired four shots. O'Donohue said it turned Reynolds had no
weapon.

T he officer administered first aid to Reynolds as Royal Oak Fire Department medical emergency
technicians headed to the area. He was later pronounced dead at Beaumont Hospital. Reynolds'
parents were also taken to the hospital, but police said their injuries were not serious.

Police said the officer who shot Reynolds has been with the department for more than four years.

T he county sheriff's office is now handling the investigation of the latest shooting and the officer is
on administrative leave pending the outcome.

Apparently the incident with Reynolds and his parents started when he returned home in the early
morning hours.

"It sounds like he was out with some friends and (his parents) are speculating he was maybe on
something ... and playing his guitar very loud and was very out of sorts, or out of character,"
O'Donohue said. "What the family is dealing with now is a very tragic situation and they are trying
to make some sense of it." T he knife Reynolds stabbed his mother with may have broken when it
hit a collar bone and he grabbed another knife, O'Donohue said,

Reynolds had a prior contact with city police last year. He was intoxicated and driving the wrong
way on Woodward Avenue and hit another vehicle. Reynolds was later convicted of a felony for
drunken driving resulting in a serious injury.

Until the police shooting in April, Royal Oak had not had an officer involved shooting in two
decades. O'Donhue said it was important to look at the fatal shootings in the past month as
"separate and unique instances."

"Any loss of life is tragic," he said. "T he public should be critical of how we respond ... when it results
in someone's death we should be held to an extremely high standard and under a microscope."

Royal Oak police do not wear body cameras, though they do have in-car video and audio
transmitters. O'Donohue said he doesn't think the department has a need for body cameras right
now but the department reviews that decision annually. He cited challenges of storing thousands
and thousands of hours of body camera video in a department with 79 sworn officers.

O'Donohue also noted that 11 officers have just been cited for life-saving awards and another
three officers for bravery.

"Royal Oak is a safe community," he said, adding that serious crime was down 15 percent last year.
T his year's annual police report shows crime is down by nearly half since 2007.

Reynolds' father told police he and his family wish to have privacy and not comment on Monday's
shooting.

"T his is a terrible thing," O'Donohue said. "T hese domestic situations are volatile and dangerous ...
this one had a tragic end that didn't need to be this way."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Oakland Press

 