
 
May 14--ROYAL OAK, Mich. -- A 20-year-old man was killed in an officer-involved shooting early Monday in Royal

Oak. 

said. 

Cody Reynolds was pronounced dead at a hospital after the altercation, in which police say the unarmed man

charged at a police officer, Royal Oak Police Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said at a press conference Monday. 

Police were called about 3:10 a.m. Monday, May 14 to the 1000 block of Hoffman Avenue for the report of a

domestic assault, according to Channel 7 (WXYZ), which aired the press conference. 

Reynolds' mother called to report being stabbed by her son, who also hit his father in the head with a guitar,

according to the report. 

O'Donohue told reporters that Reynolds had been out with friends and the altercation began over him playing

guitar too loud. He said it's believed Reynolds may have been under the influence of a substance. 

After the altercation with his parents, an officer spotted Reynolds walking nearby and told him to stop, O'Donohue

O'Donohue said Reynolds told the officer he stabbed his mom and began approaching the officer. He then abruptly

got on the ground, and then got up and charged at the officer, O'Donohue said. The officer fired at Reynolds, then

administered first aid. 

O'Donohue said there was no way for the officer to tell that Reynolds wasn't armed. 

Reynolds' parents were both hospitalized with non-life threatening injuries. 

The matter remains under investigation. 

Reynolds was on probation for a previous conviction of operating a vehicle while intoxicated causing serious

injury, police said. 

This is the second police-involved shooting reported in the region this weekend. 

A Dearborn Heights police officer shot and killed a 38-year-old man armed with a rifle about 3:30 a.m. May 13

outside a barbecue restaurant. 

This is also the second officer-involved shooting in Royal Oak in the last month. 

An officer fatally shot Antonino T. Gordon shortly after 6 p.m. April 11 in the drive-thru of the White Castle fast food

restaurant near 13 Mile and Shenandoah in Royal Oak. 

Police said Gordon fled a traffic stop a short time before his death, but haven't said why he was shot. 

CREDIT: By Darcie Moran 
 
 
