Shooting by police reviewed - Fatal shooting by - Press of Atlantic City,
The (NJ) - January 23, 2018 - page 1A
January 23, 2018 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | WALDY DIEZ Staff Writer | Page 1A

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="5d9609c8-ffa6-11e7-a3d0-00163ec2aa77"}}

MILLVILLE - A city police officer was involved in a shooting that resulted in the death of a 47-year-
old city man Monday, the Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office said.

An autopsy will be conducted on Edward C. Gandy
Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae said in a statement she released late Monday afternoon.

Edward C. Gandy Jr., of Dock Street, and the results are pending,

T he officer involved in the shooting, whose name was not released, was placed on administrative
leave, Webb-McRae said.

At about 10:47 a.m., a report came in that Gandy had a loaded firearm at High and McNeal
streets, Webb-McRae said. Police responded to the area and located Gandy.

An officer-involved shooting took place, and Gandy was shot and later pronounced dead, Webb-
McRae said.

No firearm was recovered at the location, Webb-McRae said. T he Vineland Police Department
Crime Scene Unit assisted at the scene.

Jesse T ompkins, 36, of Millville, told T he Press of Atlantic City at the scene he heard gunshots and
when he looked in the street, he saw one person had been shot.

"It's sad that at 10:40 a.m on a Monday morning that someone would get gunned down on High
Street," T omkins said.

"I heard three gunshots. I look over and a man's lying in the middle of a street. Otherwise, it's a
beautiful day, the sun came out," Tompkins said.

He said he had pulled into the parking lot of the Rite Aid drug store when the incident happened.

"I asked a guy, 'Is that a gunshot?' I look over there and see a fellow lying on the yellow line,"
T omkins said.

An ambulance came and took the man in the street to the hospital, he said.

"I don't know if he survived. It's sad because Millville's got its issues. T his doesn't help it. I'm
hometown. I was born here. And this is a bad neighborhood as far as neighborhoods go," T omkins
said.

Margaret Shope, 53, of Port Elizabeth, said she was shaken by the shooting.

"Millville is out of control. I don't want to come to Millville at night because it's not safe," Shope
said.

Shope said she did not see what happened.

A Use of Deadly Force Investigation is being conducted by the Cumberland County Prosecutor's
Office per the New Jersey attorney general's July 28, 2015, Supplemental Directive Regarding
Uniform Statewide Procedures and Best Practices for Conducting Police Use of Force
Investigations, Webb-McRae said.

Anyone with information can contact Cumberland Prosecutor's Office Detective Nicholina
Pennington at 856-362-0751.

Last week, a state investigation into the Feb. 10, 2017, shooting death of Darryl Fuqua, 23, by a
Bridgeton police officer determined the use of deadly force was legally justified and the officer
shot the man as an act of self defense.

Staff Writer Vincent Jackson contributed to this report.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 