Multiple wounds in fatal shooting - Probe - Times Herald-Record, The
(Middletown, NY) - June 20, 2018 - page A6
June 20, 2018 | Times Herald-Record, The (Middletown, NY) | Richard J. Bayne Times Herald-Record | Article |
Page A6

WARWICK — Autopsy results on the man who was shot and killed by police Saturday in the Village
of Warwick indicate the man died of multiple gunshot wounds, the Orange County district attorney
said T uesday.

Orange County District Attorney David Hoovler said investigators will be submitting toxicology
Dwayne
tests to a crime lab to determine if the man who was shot and killed, identified as Dwayne
Clyburn, 37, had drugs or alcohol in his system. A lab will also be conducting forensics tests.
Clyburn

Hoovler would not say how many times Clyburn was shot or precisely where the bullets struck him.
T he fatal shooting occurred about 3 p.m. Saturday at 24 Wheeler Ave. as T own of Warwick police
responded to a domestic disturbance.

Police said Clyburn, who was armed with a knife, advanced on them, refused commands to drop
the knife, and a town officer shot him.

T he knife has been recovered. It's about 7 inches long, Hoovler said, but he declined to describe
what kind of knife it is.

T wo neighbors who live on Wheeler Avenue said they heard three loud cracks shortly after 3 p.m.
Authorities have declined to specify the number of shots fired or indentify the officer who fired the
shots.

Hoovler said he expects the toxicology test results back in about 12 weeks. State police are
conducting an investigation into the fatal police shooting. Once that investigation is complete,
Hoovler said, the conclusions, along with the lab results, will be submitted to an Orange County
grand jury.

T he grand jury will determine if the officer who killed Clyburn should face charges. T he police
officer has been placed on administrative leave.

Hoovler has said that a person was injured at the address before police arrived. Authorities have
declined to comment on the extent of the injuries, the identity of the person harmed, or the
relationship between Clyburn and that person.

Neither Hoovler nor town police Lt. T om Maslanka, who briefed reporters at the scene on
Saturday, would say how many officers responded to that call. Maslanka said some town officers
are equipped with T asers, but he would not say if the officers who responded Saturday were
equipped with the stun weapons.

Hoovler said the question of whether Tasers or other, less-deadly force could have been used will
not enter into his analysis of the case under New York law. T he question, Hoovler said, is whether
the officer was justified or not justified to fire his weapon.

“Whether you could have used a Taser or pepper spray is a question for a civil jury,” Hoovler said.

dbayne@th-record.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Times Herald-Record, All Rights Reserved.

 