Grand jury clears officer in fatal shooting - - Times Herald-Record, The
(Middletown, NY) - December 14, 2018 - page A6
December 14, 2018 | Times Herald-Record, The (Middletown, NY) | Heather Yakin Times Herald-Record |
Article | Page A6

GOSHEN - An Orange County grand jury has cleared a T own of Warwick police officer who fatally
shot a man armed with a knife.

On T hursday, the grand jury declined to file charges against the officer who fired the shots that
killed Dwayne Clyburn

Dwayne Clyburn, 37, on June 16.

In light of the grand jury determination, District Attorney David Hoovler released the findings of an
investigation by his office and the state police.

Hoovler did not release the name of the officer.

Hoovler said the investigation showed the following:

Warwick police were called at 2:58 p.m. on June 16 to a home on Wheeler Avenue in Warwick for a
reported domestic dispute.

Officers arrived about 10 minutes later, and heard yelling inside the home. As one officer
approached the front door of the split-level home, someone opened the door from the inside.

Police found Clyburn in the front entrance foyer area. Almost immediately, Clyburn produced an 8-
inch steak knife and confronted the officer.

T he officer repeatedly ordered him to drop the knife. Instead, Clyburn charged the officer from
less than 15 feet away.

T he officer fired three rounds, striking Clyburn.

Officers immediately performed CPR and tried to render first aid to Clyburn, but he died from the
gunshots.

T he victim inside the home had suffered slash wounds to her hands, inflicted by Clyburn, Hoovler
said. Had he survived, he would have faced a number of felony and misdemeanor charges.

Hoovler said the autopsy showed the bullets struck Clyburn in the chest and right forearm, all
entering from the front, demonstrating that Clyburn was facing the officer.

Police recovered the steak knife from Clyburn’s hand immediately after the shooting, Hoovler said.

T oxicology testing showed that Clyburn was legally intoxicated and had marijuana in his system at
the time of his death, Hoovler said.

“Everyone that was present at the scene heard the officer repeatedly warn him to stop and drop
the knife, and he did not,” Hoovler said.

“T he loss of life is tragic. But you have to listen to what police are telling you.”

Hoovler said he personally oversaw the investigation and handled the grand jury presentation, as
he does in all police-involved shootings.

hyakin@th-record.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Times Herald-Record, All Rights Reserved.

 