3 Florida Cops Kill Black Mental Patient Who Only - Chicago Defender
(IL) - December 3, 2018
December 3, 2018 | Chicago Defender (IL) | NewsOne Staff

An investigation is underway in the police-involved killing of an African-American psychiatric patient
on Saturday who was reportedly armed with a piece of glass.

It's unclear if the officers failed to use de-escalation procedures to avoid a fatal outcome.

See Also: Why Can't Cops Recognize A Gun? Another Unarmed Black Man Is Killed

T he Sun-Sentinel identified the man as Jarvis Randall
Medical Center's behavioral health center in T amarac, Florida. Staff members called the Broward
County Sheriff's Office about him on Saturday night.

Jarvis Randall, a patient at the University Hospital and

Randal, a felon who was on mental-health probation for burglary charges, became violent and
made threats, according to a sheriff's office spokeswoman.

"Investigators said he was armed with an edged-glass weapon," said Veda Coleman-Wright, adding
that efforts to calm Randall failed.

One of the officers shot at Randall with a beanbag, but instead of stopping him, it caused Randall
to charge at the deputies. T hat prompted the three officers to shoot him.

Randall is the latest in a long list of mentally ill African-American men killed by police. T he list
includes Alfred Olango, who pointed a vaping device at officers when cops shot and killed him in
2016.

And in April 2018, four officers — one in uniform, three in plainclothes — killed Saheed Vassell, 34,
in a hail of 10 bullets on a Brooklyn sidewalk. T he officers responded to calls about a Black man
with a gun. But it turned out that Vassell, who suffered from bipolar disorder, was holding a pipe.
No firearm was found at the scene.

Unlike Olango and Vassell, the police knew that Randell, 30, was mentally ill during their encounter.

T he three deputies are on restricted duty while the Florida Department of Law Enforcement
investigates.

SEE ALSO:

Meet Tammy Kemp, T he Black Judge Assigned T o Amber Guyger Murder T rial For Killing Botham
Jean

Marc Lamont Hill Apologizes For Comments About Israel-Palestine Conflict

[ione_media_gallery src="https://newsone.com" id="3838695" overlay="true"]

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Chicag o Defender

 