Police-involved fatality raises questions - South Jersey Times (NJ) - July
17, 2018 - page A4
July 17, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Page A4

editorial

It’s happened again. A man was shot to death last weekend by police after a controversial
confrontation.

Actually, it happened twice. One time, it happened in Chicago, in an incident that garnered national
media attention.

T he other time, it happened in Vineland, in an incident that barely made the local T V news.

Why the broad scrutiny for one event and nearly no notoriety for the other? T hat seems to defy
explanation, except that Chicago is a big city with a reputation for severe street violence.

Yet, the Vineland fatality seems to be the one, on the face of it, that should generate more
questions.

In Chicago, police released body-cam video of the circumstances in which Harith Augutus, 37, lost
his life. Authorities hoped the video release would quell ongoing protests, since the footage
appears to show the man with a gun and an ammunition magazine in his waistband.

No such weapon-related assertion has been made officially about Saturday morning’s situation in
Vineland. T he deceased was later identified as Rashaun Washington, 37, of Bridgeton.

Witnesses say Washington, shirtless and holding a bottle of water, had been pacing around some
homes and near police cars that had responded. Described as agitated, the man supposedly said
something like, “I’m not leaving, you’re gonna have to kill me,” Three shots rang out, and
Washington was dead.

T he police-involved fatality is one of several recent ones in South Jersey. T he number would be
sparking more concern if they’d all occurred in Chicago or another large city.

In April, police shot and killed Jose Pietri
investigation out of Winslow T ownship. T he incident occurred in Millville, with Winslow police also
involved.

Jose Pietri, 55, of Pennsville, who was being pursued in a murder

Early this year, use of deadly force by police was declared justified in the case of Darryl Fuqua, 23,
who was killed Feb. 10, 2017, by a Bridgeton officer. A state review of a Cumberland County
investigation agreed that the officer acted in self-defense.

In early June, Deptford Township police killed shoplifting suspect LaShanda Anderson, 36, of
Philadelphia. Authorities say she tried to run over two officers with her SUV as she attempted to
flee a shopping center. T here is no police body-camera footage of this incident.

T he Anderson case, like the others, sparked protests from family members, but groups that are
routinely suspicious of police-involved shootings have been fairly quiet. Gloucester County NAACP
President Loretta Winters, after meeting with Gloucester County Prosecutor Charles Fiore, said she
had confidence that the ongoing investigation would be thorough.

And, returning to Vineland, police were ultimately cleared in the April 2016 shooting of Richard Baird
Jr., because he had allegedly tried to shoot at a city officer.

T he optics surrounding Saturday’s shooting seem different. They’re consistent with cases in which
someone with a mental illness or a psychological problem ends up dead after interacting with
police.

T here have been great advances in training and procedures when police believe they’re engaging
with someone who shows signs of being disturbed. Only a complete investigation can determine
whether Washington’s death was a tragically missed opportunity to use best practices.

Meanwhile, it would be better if all police-involved fatalities were automatically probed by state
authorities, not county prosecutors, whose conclusions always generate cries that investigators
are “too close” to the police departments and officers involved.

Last month alone, police across New Jersey shot and killed four people.

We’re still waiting for lawmakers to enact this long-proposed reform, as the number of incidents
grows.

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 