Dad watched as deputies shot son - Citrus County Chronicle (Crystal
River, FL) - February 18, 2018
February 18, 2018 | Citrus County Chronicle (Crystal River, FL) | CARLY ZERVIS

A Hernando man killed by deputies Saturday evening after ramming his car into a patrol vehicle told
his mother he planned to kill his wife and himself, the man's family said Sunday.

Ryan B atchelder, 28, was armed when he was shot by two Citrus County Sheriff's deputies in the
Ryan B atchelder
Hernando Plaza parking lot, sheriff's spokeswoman Lindsay Blair said Sunday.

Blair said Batchelder pointed his weapon at deputies prior to the crash but she would not say if he
discharged it. T he Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating and the two deputies,
Ryne Rainey and Mike Anger, were placed on administrative leave with pay as per agency policy.
Both have been with agency a short time — Anger's hire date is Jan. 17, 2017 and Rainey was hired
in July, Blair said.

Batchelder served in Afghanistan with the Vermont Army National Guard in his mid 20s prior to
moving to Florida, and suffered from combat-related depression, family members said Sunday.

His mother, Lisa Batchelder, said Ryan told her he was driving to the Xtreme Games 3 in the
Hernando Plaza where his wife Samantha worked to kill her and then himself.

Lisa Batchelder said she alerted authorities and her husband.

"I called 911 and gave them as much information as I could. T hey said that Samantha was safe
and we didn't know where Ryan was," she said. "I had hoped that he would come back here, so I
stayed here until Mike called me and told that Ryan was dead."

Michael Batchelder, rushing home from work after getting his wife's call, stopped at the plaza in
Hernando. He saw Ryan drive into the parking lot and ram his car into CCSO cruisers. He said he
didn't see his son fire a shot.

"I was 15 feet away from my boy. I could see every round hit his body," Michael said Sunday. "I
even begged them to stop...I know he intended to do harm, but I thought that was a little
extreme."

James Greer manages the internet cafe where Ryan B atchelder
customer were in the cafe when Ryan B atchelder
evening.

Ryan B atchelder's wife works. She and a

Ryan Batchelder arrived in the parking lot early Saturday

He told Samantha and the customer to get into rooms at the back of the building and get down
low, Greer said Sunday.

"At the time I didn't even think about it," he said. "I just did what I thought I needed to do."

Greer said he thought he saw Ryan fire in the direction of the deputies.

Blair said both deputies were outside their vehicles in the parking lot when Ryan B atchelder
in at a high rate of speed, crashing into Rainey's patrol car. Neither deputy was shot, though
Rainey was injured in the crash and hospitalized briefly Saturday, Blair said.

Ryan Batchelder drove

Deputies were alerted from the 911 call to spot a blue Kia Sedona. T hey saw the car in Hernando
and began to pursue Batchelder north on State Road 200 but they called off the pursuit due to
Batchelder's rate of speed, Blair said.

Batchelder was then spotted driving south on County Road 491, then U.S. 41 toward Hernando.
Attempts to stop his vehicle were unsuccessful until he slammed into the cars in the parking lot,
Blair said.

Batchelder, who was divorced, married Samantha in December.

"He struggled a lot with PT SD and depression...but he was still family oriented," Samantha
Batchelder said. "T hat was his life."

His parents knew he struggled, too. T hey moved to Citrus County from Vermont after Ryan did to
"help him out," Lisa Batchelder said. Ryan and Samantha were living with his parents in Hernando.

"He didn't talk about it much," Lisa Batchelder said of her son's deployment at Bagram Air Force
Base in Afghanistan.

"He had swapped shifts with a friend because he was tired, and the gate at Bagram got raided,"
she said. "His friend who had replaced him and some other friends had gotten killed. He said that it
should have been him."

Ryan B atchelder
Ryan B atchelder's wife and parents all spoke of his difficulties getting help. Samantha said he
hadn't been to the VA clinic since last April.

"He said it always took too long," she said. "T hat he had to wait months for an appointment."

His mom agreed, recalling that after Ryan told her Saturday afternoon that he was going to kill his
wife and himself, she asked him if she could get him some help.

"He said, 'Something happened yesterday and it just shut me off. I'm disconnected from myself,'"
she recalled. "I said, 'Can I call the VA, the health department?' He said 'T hey don't help me.' T he
last time he was depressed it was six months before he got an appointment."

Ryan's wife and parents also agreed that he hadn't given anyone any indication that he could turn
violent.

"He never laid a finger on me," Samantha said of her husband.

"T here was no precursor," his father said.

"When we got home, we were looking in his room, to see that red flag, that something…" his
mother added. "I'm hearing these different things and I want it to be known that my kid needed
help."

Staff writer Mike Wright contributed to this report.

Editor's note: T his story has been updated to clarify that the deputies were placed on
administrative leave with pay, not suspended.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Citrus County Chronicle, Landmark Community Newspapers LLC (LCNI). All rights reserved.

 