FULL STORY: Springboro area man's death ruled - Allied News (Grove
City, PA) - July 26, 2018
July 26, 2018 | Allied News (Grove City, PA) | Keith Gushard Meadville Tribune

T he elderly Springboro area man found in a pond in northwestern Crawford County on T uesday
died from a stab wound to the neck and sustained multiple other trauma.

Crawford County Coroner Scott Schell officially ruled the death of Theodore M. Garver, 88, a
homicide following completion of an autopsy Wednesday afternoon in Erie.

Kenneth Edwin M artell, wanted by Pennsylvania State Police at Meadville on homicide and other
Kenneth Edwin M artell
charges for Garver's death, remains at large.

T he autopsy report from Dr. Eric Vey listed Garver's death because of "sharp force injury to the
neck," Schell said. Garver had both assault and blunt force injuries as well as binding and restraint
injuries on his arms and legs, Schell said.

"Mr. Garver had several blunt force injuries to his head and other trauma to various parts of his
body," he said.

In court documents filed against Martell, state police said Garver had been stabbed with a knife and
had been tied to a rocking chair with his body bound with duct tape and an electrical wire.

Garver's body was recovered by authorities Tuesday morning in a pond off Reeds Corners Road,
about a mile west of Garver's home at 2443 Parker Road in Beaver T ownship.

With the completion of the autopsy, Garver's remains have been released to McCauley Funeral
Home of Conneautville, which is handling funeral arrangements, Schell said.

Authorities went to Garver's home and the Reeds Corners Road area Tuesday morning after two
people who said they were forced at gunpoint to help Martell cover up his alleged crime contacted
Meadville Police Department.

T he hunt for Martell, 36, of Cochranton continued on Wednesday with state police saying Martell
may be driving a 2011 Kia Sorento. T he vehicle is a small sport utility vehicle that is gold or silver
and has Pennsylvania license plate KHL-4596.

Crawford County District Attorney Francis Schultz said Wednesday the vehicle had Pittsburgh
Steelers headrests and Steelers dice hanging from its rear view mirror.

Asked whether Martell and Garver may have known each other prior to Garver's death, Schultz said
that had not been confirmed. He said authorities believed Martell previously "may have fished in
ponds in the area" near Garver's home.

Schultz declined comment on whether the alleged murder weapon had been recovered.

Martell allegedly threatened three others with a handgun, including Martell's mother, to help
Martell cover up the murder, according to court documents.

Keith Gushard can be reached at 724-6370 or by email at kgushard@meadvilletribune.com.

You can help

Anyone with information on the whereabouts of Kenneth E. Martell, wanted in the death of
T heodore M. Garver, is asked to contact Pennsylvania State Police at Meadville at (814) 332-6911.

Copyrig ht 2018, Allied News / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 