Pennsylvania slaying suspect was armed - - Barrington Courier-Review
(IL) - August 2, 2018 - page 9
August 2, 2018 | Barrington Courier-Review (IL) | Frank Abderholden | Page 9

New details from the officer-involved shooting last week in Lakemoor emerged July 27 when
officials said the officer did not run the license plate before approaching a man sleeping in a vehicle
backed into a remote gravel service driveway.

T he vehicle in which Pennsylvania slaying suspect Kenneth Edwin M artell
front license plate because it is not required in that state, law enforcement authorities said.

Kenneth Edwin Martell slept did not have a

"She conversed with him for a period of time," said Sgt. Christopher Covelli, spokesman for the
Major Crime T ask Force, which investigates all officer-involved shootings in the county. "She then
ran the plate through dispatch using her radio. She ran the plate and shortly after, that is when he
attacked."

Authorities said the encounter escalated quickly into a deadly confrontation. No officers were
injured.

T he female officer approached the vehicle, which was in an area where cars are usually not parked,
with the front facing Four Seasons Boulevard, Covelli said.

T he officer woke Martell, 36, of Springboro, Pa., who was wanted on an arrest warrant in
connection with a slaying in Crawford County, Pa. T he name of the officer has not been released.

"He attacked her by pointing a gun, and the struggle was to keep the gun from pointing to her,"
Covelli said.

"He was reaching for a second weapon while struggling with the first one."

A backup unit arrived during the struggle, Covelli said, and the murder suspect started to reach for
another weapon inside the vehicle when he was shot by police. Martell was pronounced dead at the
scene.

"T he body cameras are going to be very important in this case," Covelli said. T he female officer
has just less than two years of total police experience and the male officer has 13 years of total
police experience, he said.

According to Trooper Cindy Schick of Pennsylvania State Police, vehicles are required to have only
a rear license plate in that state. Covelli said investigators are still working on why Martell was in
Lakemoor, a small village on the Lake and McHenry county border.

Martell was accused of killing 88-year-old Theodore Garver during a July 23 robbery attempt.

Martell killed the man and forced three people at gunpoint to help dump the man's body in a pond,
according state police.

According to T he Associated Press, an autopsy showed Garver died of sharp-force injuries to the
neck and some assault-related blunt- and sharp-force injuries. Police recovered his body July 24
from the pond.

"Both Lakemoor officers were transported to a local hospital for evaluation (with this) being an
officer-involved shooting," Covelli said at the scene.

Officer-involved shootings are investigated by the task force, and then findings are forwarded to
the Lake County state's attorney's office for review.

fabderholden@tribpub.com

T witter @abderholden

Copyrig ht, 2018, Barring ton Courier-Review, Pioneer Press. All rights reserved. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED.

 