Man shot by Lakemoor cops was wanted in Pa. - - Lake County News-
Sun (Waukegan, IL) - July 27, 2018 - page 1
July 27, 2018 | Lake County News-Sun (Waukegan, IL) | Frank Abderholden | Page 1

A man shot and killed by Lakemoor police after he allegedly pulled two weapons on officers
T hursday morning was wanted in connection with the death of an elderly man earlier this week in
Pennsylvania, according to the Lake County Major Crime T ask Force.

Lake County sheriff's Sgt. Christopher Covelli, spokesman for the task force, confirmed late
T hursday that Kenneth Edwin M artell
occurred overnight Monday in Crawford County, Pa.

Kenneth Edwin M artell, 36, of Springboro, Pa., was a suspect in a murder that

Lake County Coroner Howard Cooper said an autopsy Thursday afternoon showed Martell died
from injuries suffered by a gunshot wound to the face. He said toxicology reports are pending.

Lake County authorities were in contact with Pennsylvania State Police concerning their search for
Martell, who was named in a murder warrant that was issued earlier this week, according to
T rooper Cindy Schick of the Pennsylvania State Police.

Martell allegedly went to the home of 88-year-old Theodore Garver to rob him late Monday but
killed him and then forced three people at gunpoint to help him get rid of the body in a pond,
according to state police.

According to T he Associated Press, an autopsy Wednesday on Garver showed he died of sharp-
force injuries to the neck and some assault-related blunt- and sharp-force injuries. Police recovered
his body Tuesday from the pond.

T he shooting Thursday began with an officer investigating a suspicious man in a vehicle in the
small village of Lakemoor, on the border of Lake and McHenry counties. According to Covelli, the
incident took place about 5 a.m. on a gravel road off Four Seasons Boulevard near the Lakemoor
Country Club that leads into the Meadows Apartments off west Sullivan Lake Road.

"T he Lakemoor Officer exited her squad car to check on the vehicle and adult male occupant,"
Covelli wrote in a statement. "While the Lakemoor Officer was speaking to the man, he produced a
handgun. A struggle ensued between the man and the Lakemoor Officer.

"During the struggle, a second Lakemoor Officer arrived at the scene. As he approached, he
observed the offender was in possession of a second handgun. At least one of the two Lakemoor
Officers fired at the man."

Covelli said Martell was struck by gunfire and subsequently pronounced dead at the scene.

"Both Lakemoor officers were transported to a local hospital for evaluation (with this) being an

officer-involved shooting," Covelli said at the scene.

According to Covelli, the Lakemoor officers were equipped with body cameras but evidence would
not be immediately available as the investigation proceeds.

fabderholden@tribpub.com

T witter @abderholden

Copyrig ht, 2018, Lake County News-Sun (Waukeg an, IL). All rights reserved. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED.

 