More information released on 2 Kansas City police - Associated Press
State Wire: Missouri (MO) - June 20, 2018
June 20, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Missouri (MO)

KANSAS CIT Y, Mo. (AP) — Kansas City police are releasing more details about two officer-involved
shootings that occurred within an hour of each other last week, leaving three people dead.

In a statement released Wednesday, police said they fatally shot Ashley Simonetti, 28, after she
rushed police with a 27-inch steel sword. T he shooting occurred after officers saw Simonetti, also
known as Ashley Fulkerson, walking down the street with a sword toward a daycare center.

Police said she tried unsuccessfully to enter several homes before breaking into a house where no
one was home. She stayed inside the home and a nearby garage for nearly two hours while
officers tried several nonlethal methods to get her to surrender. Eventually, Simonetti left the
garage and "ran toward officers with a sword," the statement said. Officers then shot and killed
Simonetti.

She died at the scene. No one else was injured.

About an hour later, officers received a report of two men fighting at the Barney Allis Plaza in
downtown Kansas City. According to police, that incident began when Timothy M osley
T imothy M osley, of T ulsa,
Oklahoma, was thrown out of a nearby Marriott Hotel for causing a disturbance. He allegedly then
walked into the plaza and used a handgun to steal personal property and a golf cart from a
uniformed security guard, who escaped.

Officers were then notified that Mosley was fighting with Robert White, 38, a homeless man. T he
two men had several intermittent altercations, and when they stopped Mosley walked around the
plaza yelling and holding the weapon in the air, police said.

Shortly after officers arrived, the men began fighting again. T hey were struggling and physically
intertwined when Mosley pointed the gun at officers, who fired, hitting both men, police said. Both
men died at the scene.

Police said they are still investigating why the men were fighting, why White stayed at the scene
between altercations and whether the two men had met before.

T imothy M osley
T imothy Mosley's mother, Nella Mosley, said the police statement was confusing and disturbing,
T he Kansas City Star reported .

"T hey say he robbed a security guard? Why would he steal a golf cart?" she said. "I don't believe
T imothy pointed a gun at anyone. Until I see a video of him putting a gun on police, I won't believe
it."

Kansas City police generally don't wear body cameras and the only video seen publicly was taken by
a witness and doesn't show the men when police shot at them.

After releasing the statement, Kansas City police declined to answer further questions about the
shootings.

"T hese were outcomes no one wanted," police said in the statement, released by police
spokesman Capt. Lionel Colón. "Our community deserves to know what happens whenever police
use lethal force, but investigators also need time to gather evidence and statements to conduct a
thorough investigation."

___

Information from: T he Kansas City Star, http://www.kcstar.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 