Undersheriff says deputy doing well under the - Daily News, The
(Batavia, NY) - April 17, 2018 - page A5
April 17, 2018 | Daily News, The (Batavia, NY) | BRIAN QUINN bquinn@batavianews.com | Page A5

A sheriff's deputy who fatally shot an armed suspect the night of April 11 in the parking lot of a
Pembroke restaurant is doing relatively well, considering the circumstances of the incident,
Undersheriff Greg Walker said Monday afternoon.

T hat's what Walker told the County Public Services Committee during its meeting. T he committee
thanked the Sheriff's Office for its response and asked about Deputy Ryan Young.

On the night of the incident, according to the Sheriff's Office, Young and other officers found
Keith Kent
Keith Kent  holding a gun in the Indian Falls Log Cabin restaurant's parking lot after responding to
a call and commanded him to drop the weapon.

"When they yelled the commands to him, he turned toward one of our officers and pointed the gun
at our officer. Our officer did take the shot and the suspect was killed," Walker told a news
conference that night. No one else was injured in the incident.

After he left Monday's committee meeting, Walker said the New York State Police investigation
continues.

"T hey're still working on it. They're getting down to the tail end of it, so I would imagine they'll have
theirs completed relatively soon," he said. "T hey'll probably talk to the DA (district attorney) and
then go from there.

"Walker said the Sheriff's Office is in touch with Young on a daily basis and that the deputy is aware
of the amount of support he has.

"Not just us - everybody's been really good about it," he said, Asked when Young is scheduled to
return to duty, Walker said, "We're still up in the air with that one. Yeah, we're working on it. We're
basically looking for him to say when he thinks he's ready."

Walker said Young has been on paid administrative leave and will be until further notice.

"Considering the circumstances, he is (doing well). It's going to take some time. T hat's one of
those things, you wonder, 'What's going to happen six months from now?"

Copyrig ht, 2018, Johnson Newspaper Corporation

 