‘I might be stabbed,’ officer says after - South Jersey Times (NJ) - July 5,
2018 - page A2
July 5, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Joe Brandt | Page A2

Atlantic City

It’s over in under 10 seconds.

A man approaches an Atlantic City police officer on foot and rapidly raises his right arm as the
officer backpedals, gun drawn, yelling, “Put it down.”

T he officer fires, and the man goes down. He later dies.

T he officer was stabbed, and treated and released from a hospital.

Authorities made public Tuesday evening the body-worn camera footage showing the encounter.

T he shooting that killed Timothy Deal
the scene and the other of the officer who was stabbed.

T imothy Deal, 32, is seen from two perspectives: one of an officer on

Neither officer is named.

T he Atlantic County Prosecutor’s Office released the clips of the June 22 incident, which occurred
while officers were investigating a hit-and-run near Kentucky and Caspian avenues.

In the videos, officers are talking to witnesses when Deal approaches.

“Put it down, put it down!” the one officer says as Deal approaches with the knife. T he officer
draws his weapon and shoots deal, who falls behind a van that was involved in the crash.

“You good?” one officer asks after Deal is down.

“I might be stabbed, I’m not sure,” replies the other.

Prosecutor Damon T yner said the incident was tragic in a statement attached to the footage.

“T he unfortunate circumstances, where unarmed individuals have been assaulted and in some
instances killed, that have occurred throughout the United States should not be compared to this
matter,” T yner said.

“We must not lose sight of the fact that a sworn police officer reported to the scene of an accident
to protect the public, and was attacked for no apparent reason. T he officer defended himself and
protected the public from untold harm. T his incident reminds us of how fragile life can be and we

should all be thankful that no innocent bystanders were injured.”"

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 