Las Vegas officer returns fire at suspects while - Evening News and
Tribune (Jeffersonville-New Albany, IN) - July 17, 2018
July 17, 2018 | Evening News and Tribune (Jeffersonville-New Albany, IN) | Staff Writer

LAS VEGAS (KSNV/CNN) – Las Vegas Police released the body camera video from a police officer
who chased two men suspected of killing another.

One of the suspects is dead and the another is in custody after the two attempted to flee from Las
Vegas police.

Authorities say the two men were suspected of being involved in a homicide hours before the
chase began.

A police camera recorded the intense pursuit from the front seat of a metro patrol car.

For roughly four minutes, Officer William Umana tried to stop a pair of suspected killers - Fidel
Fidel
M iranda  and Rene Nunez. T he pair fired at police 34 times.
M iranda

While driving, Umana shoots back at the two men, blowing holes in his own windshield.

T he pursuit eventually ends near an elementary school when the suspects crash their vehicle.

Miranda, police say, tried to reverse the vehicle towards officers. He was shot and killed.

Nunez ran away and tried to hide on school property where he was eventually caught and arrested.

"When you look at that video you get a clear picture of what officers were dealing with that day. In
my opinion, they showed bravery and professionalism, heroics we come to expect from our
officers," Las Vegas Metro Police Department Assistant Sheriff Tim Kelly said.

According to police, Miranda and Nunez were well armed and suspected in a homicide from just
two hours prior to the pursuit.

According to Kelly, LVMPD policy allows officers to pursue and fire at fleeing suspects if there is
imminent danger to others.

"T he officer could have backed off - but he didn't. He stuck with it knowing what he was dealing
with," Kelly said.

Copyright 2018 KSNV, LVMPD via CNN. All rights reserved.

Copyrig ht 2018, Evening  News and Tribune / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 