Killing at Las Vegas car wash may have been gang- - Las Vegas Review-
Journal (NV) - July 18, 2018 - page B004
July 18, 2018 | Las Vegas Review-Journal (NV) | Rio Lacanlale Las Vegas Review-Journal | Page B004

T he killing of a 25-year-old man at a car wash that led to a violent shootout between two suspects
and Las Vegas police last week may have been gang-related, records show.

T homas Romero, who was shot dead early July 11 at a self-service car wash at 1402 N. Eastern
Ave., was an FT C gang member, according to a police document released T uesday. T he suspects
in his death — Fidel M iranda
police said.

Fidel Miranda , 22, and Rene Nunez, 30 — have possible gang-related aliases,

Details surrounding motive have not been released, but because of Romero’s gang ties, the
Metropolitan Police Department’s gang unit led the initial investigation.

Footage captured that morning by four security cameras placed Romero near the rear passenger
side of a stolen black Ford Expedition inside the car wash bay while Nunez washed the vehicle on
the driver’s side, Nunez’s arrest report showed.

In the footage, Miranda can be seen walking up to Romero just before 7:25 a.m. as he fired a
weapon, the report said. Almost immediately after the gunfire, Nunez also drew a weapon with his
right hand, his arrest report shows.

While Nunez “continued to hold his firearm,” the two men spoke briefly before entering the Ford,
with Nunez in the driver’s seat and Miranda in the front passenger seat, the report said.

“Both Nunez and (Miranda) appeared calm and walked at a normal pace,” detectives detailed in
their report.

After the shooting, police spotted a Ford Expedition matching the suspects’ vehicle description
near downtown Las Vegas, prompting a shootout as police chased the SUV. During the chase, the
suspects fired at marked patrol vehicles, police said.

Officer William Umana, 43, returned fire with 11 shots through his windshield and seven shots
through his open window, Metro announced Monday, while officer Paul Solomon, 46, fired his
shotgun once at Miranda. Metro chase video

T he shootout left Miranda dead and Nunez injured. Nunez survived and faces charges of murder,
attempted murder with a deadly weapon on a protected person and several other gun charges,
records show.

Neither officer was injured.

Contact Rio Lacanlale at rlacanlale@reviewjournal.com or 702-383-0381. Follow @riolacanlale on
T witter.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Las Veg as Review-Journal

 