Victims, officers identified in Rochester shooting - Daily Messenger
(Canandaigua, NY) - October 12, 2018 - page A5
October 12, 2018 | Daily Messenger (Canandaigua, NY) | Daily Messenger news partner, News 10NBC | Article
| Page A5

ROCHEST ER — Rochester Police have released the names of the three victims in Wednesday’s
deadly shooting spree.

Police say 39-year-old Terrell B lake
T errell B lake shot and killed Antane Lopez, 28, at a home on Post Avenue.
She was shot multiple times in her upper body. Lopez was Blake’s ex and the mother of one of his
children.

Blake also shot 25-year-old Willie Jakes, Lopez’s boyfriend, in the home. He was taken to the
hospital with multiple gunshot wounds to his upper body. He was in satisfactory condition
T hursday.

Investigators say Blake then shot his 20-year-old son, Terrell B lake
also in satisfactory condition after being shot at least once in his lower body.

T errell B lake Jr., on Frances Street. He is

Blake Jr. was able to identify the shooter as his father. After leading police on a chase through the
city in a U-Haul, Blake died after getting into a shootout with officers.

Sixteen Rochester Police officers were involved as well as one sheriff’s deputy. None of them were
injured.

Police say this could have ended with more people being killed if not for the quick and brave action
of everyone who chased down the shooter.

On Wednesday, in the area of North Goodman Street and Forester Street, Blake began shooting
towards a Monroe County sheriff’s deputy and a Rochester police officer. Both the deputy and the
officer, who were standing outside of their vehicle, fired back at the the U-Haul that Blake was in.

T he deputy vehicle, as well as Blake’s vehicle, were struck by gunfire. Blake then continued
westbound on Forster Street and then southbound on Frances Street before crashing into a
fenced yard that belonged to his family.

After Blake refused to comply with officers’ orders, multiple officers fired shots, leaving Blake
deceased at the scene.

On T hursday, the Rochester Police Department released the names of the officers involved in the
deadly shooting spree in which Blake was said to have been on a mission to kill his family.

T he officers involved are as follows:

Sergeant Brian Phillips, 46, an 18-year veteran with the RPD.

Sergeant Dan Brochu, 53, a 15-year veteran with the RPD.

Sergeant Josh Lewis, 38, a 12-year veteran with the RPD.

Officer Tito Batson, 38, a 13-year veteran with the RPD.

Officer Ryan Hartley, 40, a 12-year veteran with the RPD.

Officer Brandon Mandurano, 38, a 12-year veteran with the RPD.

Officer Thomas Deane, 32, an 11-year veteran with the RPD.

Officer Richard Doran, 42, a 10-year veteran with the RPD.

Officer Jordan Bracey, 45, a 10-year veteran with the RPD.

Another son of Blake, Kamiu Blake, 18, who was charged in connection to the 2017 shooting of
RPD officer Jeremy Nash, pleaded guilty to one count of attempted assault in July. He was
sentenced to 12 years behind bars with five years post-release supervision. Another teen involved
in that shooting — T ykyal Glover, 17 — Thursday pleaded guilty to first-degree assault and four
counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon.

Copyrig ht 2018 Daily Messeng er. All Rights Reserved.

 