A man who was shot by a Fayetteville police - Fayetteville Observer,
The (NC) - July 4, 2018 - page A4
July 4, 2018 | Fayetteville Observer, The (NC) | Rodger Mullen and Nancy McCleary Staff writers | Article |
Page A4

A man who was shot by a Fayetteville police officer after stabbing a pregnant woman at an
apartment off Raeford Road has died.

Lemuel B unn
Lemuel B unn, 40, of Roanoke Rapids, died of his injuries Tuesday evening at Cape Fear Valley
Medical Center, said Sgt. Shawn Strepay, a police spokesman.

T he woman, Stephanie Williams, 34, of the 800 block of Greenleaf Drive in the T reetop
Apartments, is in stable condition at the same hospital. Williams remains at Cape Fear Valley
Medical Center and is currently stable.T he condition of the unborn child is not known, a police
release said.

Police released additional details of the incident in a release in a press release on Tuesday night.
T he department was also preparing to release to the public a 911 call made by Williams. as well as
the 911 call, Tuesday night.

Police Chief Gina Hawkins said at a news conference Tuesday morning that officers responded at
9:08 a.m. to the 911 call from Williams.

"She was being held in her apartment against her will, stabbed numerous times," Hawkins said.

When officers arrived, the woman was still on the phone with the 911 operator.

"She (Williams) could hear the officers knocking on the door, and she started screaming at that
point,'' Hawkins said.

T he officers forced their way into the apartment and found Williams, bleeding from her wounds,
lying on a bed, the updated release said. Bunn had one arm around Williams' neck and was holding
a knife, according to police.

Officers told him multiple times to drop the knife, but Bunn refused, police state.

"At that time, an officer discharged their firearm, striking Bunn, and stopping the immediate threat
to Williams’ life,” the release said.

T he officer, who was not injured, has not been identified, but has been placed on administrative
duty, which is departmental procedure.

T he Police Department’s policy regarding identifying an officer who is involved in a shooting says,

“T he name of the involved officer will be released, through a media release by the PIO’s office, at a
practical time after 48 hours of the initial incident notification.”

T he State Bureau of Investigation is looking into the shooting, which is standard procedure for any
officer-involved shooting.

T he Police Department’s Internal Affairs Unit is conducting an internal investigation to ensure all
departmental policies and procedures were followed, the release said.

“T here is nothing happening right now as far as disciplinary action,” Hawkins said. “Our response
was on-point, was definitely on-point.”

Asked Tuesday morning how the officer was doing, Hawkins said, “If you can imagine being
involved in a shooting, it takes a toll on you.”

Once the SBI has turned over its findings to the Cumberland County District Attorney, a press
conference will be held, the policy says.

Access to the building where the shooting happened and others in the same area was restricted on
T uesday as the incident was being investigated. Crime scene tape marked off the parking area,
encompassing four buildings.

Officers escorted residents living in the affected buildings to their homes. Several police vehicles
were in the parking lot.

Residents and business owners in the area expressed shock at the incident, but one said there has
been trouble there before.

Leslie McDonald, a home health nurse at Primary Choice Inc. on Raeford Road, said she called the
police last week after seeing a man with a knife.

“We get a lot of homeless people and people who wander through here, so it’s not surprising,”
McDonald said. “You would hope that something like that wouldn’t happen around here.”

Reggie “Rambo” White, who lives in another part of the Treetop complex, called it a “quiet place.”

“T here’s no excitement going on,” White said. “I never heard of anything like that.”

Josh Baez, who also lives in T reetop, said a friend of his lives near the apartment where the
stabbing and shooting incident happened and knew the people involved.

“He said they were pretty calm,” Baez said. “He didn’t think they would get in trouble.”

T he department’s last fatal officer-involved shooting occurred in December 2016 on the 800 block
of Bedrock Drive in the Ponderosa neighborhood, off Santa Fe Drive near Ponderosa Elementary
School.

Staff writer Rodger Mullen can be reached at rmullen@fayobserver.com or 486-3561.

Staff writer Nancy McCleary can be reached at nmccleary@fayobserver.com or 486-3568.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Fayetteville (N.C.) Observer

 