Gunman was facing years in state prison - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - January 21, 2018 - page A10
January 21, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Charles Thompson | Page A10

Court records suggest one possible explanation for why Kevin Sturg is
T hursday in a gun battle with police, acted so rashly.

Kevin Sturg is , who was shot and killed

After a lifetime of relatively short stints in jail, the 31-year-old charged with killing Deputy U.S.
Marshal Christopher Hill, might have known he was facing significantly harder prison time than he’d
ever served before if captured.

T he document, by itself, can’t be conclusive. Attempts to reach Sturgis’s family were not
successful, and investigators have thus far not released their own conclusions about a motive.

Several neighbors have said that, in their sidewalk encounters with Sturgis, he was very polite and
friendly during the brief time he lived in the neighborhood.

He drove a car and otherwise did not act like a man on the run.

But a sentencing memorandum filed by Philadelphia assistant district attorney Robert Wainwright
the day before Sturgis was to be sentenced in January 2017 for illegal possession of a handgun
might be instructive.

T he gun case, which dates to April 8, 2014, city police officers stopped a car for a stop sign
violation. Officers said they saw the driver, later identified as Sturgis, move something.

T hey recovered a .40-caliber semi-automatic handgun from the car’s center console.

Philly prosecutors wanted Common Pleas Judge Giovanni Campbell to sentence Sturgis to five to
10 years in state prison.

It was time, the prosecutor suggested, to hew to state sentencing guidelines and teach a man
who regularly faced criminal charges a lesson.

His argument was based on a record that showed 11 arrests and six convictions for Sturgis as an
adult, plus an attempted rape case that Sturgis was found delinquent on — tantamount to a
conviction in adult court — as a juvenile in 2004, when he was 17.

It was not immediately clear what kind of sentence Sturgis received as a juvenile.

T he adult convictions included a theft by receiving stolen property case in which Sturgis was found
at the wheel of a stolen car; a drug dealing charge in 2008; and the gun charges in 2014.

T hose were all Philadelphia cases.

T here was also an incident in Myrtle Beach, S.C., during which Sturgis was found guilty of a
December 2008 theft charge and sentenced to a 30-day maximum prison term.

And a variety of probation violations or missed court appearances that landed Sturgis behind bars
for several weeks at a time.

Sturgis also was arrested on drug charges in Harrisburg in 2013, though most of those counts
were dismissed at the district justice level, and a remaining conspiracy charge, records show, was
dropped.

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo said in that case, after a co-defendant took full
responsibility for the drugs and pleaded guilty, prosecutors eventually recognized they had no case
left against Sturgis.

According to Philadelphia’s prison records, Sturgis had been in and out of city jails on nine separate
occasions between January 2007 and October 2015.

T he longest stint was from July 14, 2011 to May 17, 2012, after his arrest for an earlier set of gun
charges that were ultimately dropped.

Sturgis also served more than seven months after his 2014 arrest, which resulted in his conviction
at trial for unlawful possession of a firearm in 2016.

It was sentencing for that case that generated Wainright’s memo, in which the prosecutor argued
Sturgis’s “lengthy criminal history in multiple states” and his prior probation violations warranted
five to 10 years behind bars.

Campbell, the sentencing judge, never got to make that call.

At the time of Sturgis’s sentencing on Jan. 5, 2017 the defendant, who had been on house arrest,
was a no-show. “He didn’t show up for sentencing, and I hadn’t heard from him since,” Sturgis’s
attorney, Gerald Stein, said Friday.

Sturgis had apparently stayed off police radar ever since, until T hursday.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 