Officers' body camera footage released in Aug. 7 - Herald-Times
(Bloomington, IN) - August 28, 2018
August 28, 2018 | Herald-Times (Bloomington, IN) | Abby Tonsing

T he Monroe County Sheriff's Office on Tuesday released the body camera footage of the Aug. 7
police-action shooting that killed a 24-year-old Bloomington man.

T he footage from Deputies Don T eague and Deandre Moxley show how quickly the fatal shooting
unfolded in a wooded area behind a mobile home in southwestern Monroe County.

In about six seconds, the two deputies fired at least 15 shots at Daniel B oyer
say pointed a loaded handgun at the officers there to serve arrest warrants.

Daniel B oyer, who investigators

Boyer, whose face and injuries were redacted in the body camera footage released to T he Herald-
T imes, sustained four gunshot wounds. T he bullet that killed Boyer entered through the front of
his thigh, traveled upward and penetrated his aorta, liver and lung.

T hat Tuesday morning, T eague, a field training officer, had been paired with Moxley, a rookie
deputy. T he body camera footage released for T eague is 7 minutes and 24 seconds long;
Moxley's is less than two minutes.

T hirty-seven seconds into T eague's footage, he yells, "Sheriff's Office, stop. Right now."

Four seconds later, the gunfire starts in a rapid-fire succession that continues for about six
seconds until Boyer stops running and crumples to the ground.

In Moxley's body camera footage, he draws his weapon and starts shooting after T eague fires his
first four shots.

T eague reports to dispatchers that shots have been fired and a man is down. T he deputies then
start yelling at Boyer to put his hands up.

He doesn't, he can't. He's incapacitated.

"T he weapon's down on the ground, right here. Unknown if anybody else has a weapon," T eague
says while Deputy Moxley cuffs Boyer and another deputy unloads the ammunition from Boyer's
handgun into the grass. T his is about a minute after the last shot was fired.

T he remainder of T eague's body camera footage shows the deputies struggling to find a safe
way to carry the injured Boyer out of the woods and to the road that medics and firefighters can
access.

T he deputies don't know how many people remain inside the Tower Road mobile home, and who

may be armed with guns.

Sheriff Brad Swain described the scene hours after the police action shooting. "T he male subject
who they had been looking for came out the back door with a handgun, pointed it at the deputies
and said a comment to the effect of 'f--- this,'" Swain said during an Aug. 7 press conference at
the scene of the shooting.

T he body camera footage isn't as clear as Swain's description.

Foliage and trees fill the foreground as the deputies surround the wooded area behind the mobile
home, and the footage shakes and blurs as the deputies run and yell at Boyer to stop. T hen, the
deputies' forearms, hands and 9 mm Glock 17 handguns take over the foregrounds during the
shooting.

Boyer comes into focus as he staggers and falls to the ground.

T he four deputies and two sergeants that went to the 5996 W. Tower Road residence that
morning had information that Boyer, who was wanted on methamphetamine charges, was there.
Boyer had run from deputies out of the back of the mobile home before, the sheriff said.

T eague and Moxley were placed on paid administrative leave for 14 days during an internal
investigation into the shooting and Boyer's death.

T he Monroe County Prosecutor's Office last week determined the police-action shooting was
justified, and both deputies returned to full and active duty on Aug. 22.

In a press release issued Friday, Sheriff Brad Swain said Boyer's family requested a private viewing
of the footage. T hat happened late Tuesday afternoon before footage was released to the media.

© Copyrig ht 2018 Herald-Times. All rights reserved.

 