Lakeland police shoot teen in stolen car By Gary - Florida Times-Union,
The (Jacksonville, FL) - December 27, 2018 - page 2,B-2
December 27, 2018 | Florida Times-Union, The (Jacksonville, FL) | Gary White | Page 2,B-2

An early morning shooting Wednesday involving Lakeland Police Department officers has left a
Winter Haven teenager dead.

T he incident took place about 2 a.m. during a gathering of about 200 people in the parking lot of
Salem's Fresh Eats restaurant. Police spokesman Gary Gross said the agency received a call from
an employee at Salem's requesting officers to clear the parking lot at 101 E. Memorial Blvd. at
North Florida Avenue.

Responding to the gathering, officers spotted a stolen Camaro out of Winter Haven in the parking
lot. Lakeland Police Chief Larry Giddens said as multiple officers approached the vehicle issuing
verbal commands, the driver accelerated from a parked position, "aggressively" speeding through
the parking lot toward an officer and a group of patrons who were scattering from the
approaching Camaro.

Giddens called the scene "chaotic" and said the officer feared for his life as well as the safety of a
large group of scattering patrons.

Officers opened fire on the vehicle, which struck multiple vehicles and a utility pole, Giddens said.
T he Camaro eventually rammed into a parked car, launching it into the neighboring Bike Barn
business, causing a hole in the exterior block wall.

Prior to those multiple collisions, a female passenger was able to roll out of the vehicle, Giddens
said. T he woman told officers that a firearm may have been in the Camaro, and the weapon was
later found on the driver's side floorboard, Giddens said.

Following the collision with the Bike Barn business, officers got Michael Jerome T aylor
Winter Haven out of the Camaro and began to perform first aid. He was pronounced dead at
Lakeland Regional Health Medical Center.

M ichael Jerome T aylor, 17, of

T aylor had four previous felony arrests, ranging from burglary to grand theft auto, police said.

T he officers involved in the incident are Markais Neal, 28; Joseph Novis, 25; and Raj Patel, 23. Neal
has one year of service, while Novis and Patel each have been with the department for 18 months.

Police had not yet determined how many times the suspect was shot or how many rounds the
officers fired.

Salem's was the site of an incident early Thanksgiving morning in which a melee broke out and
several people were arrested. T he eatery is a regular gathering spot for people who congregate

after nightclubs close at 2 a.m., Gross said following that incident.

Copyrig ht 2018 The Florida Times-Union

 