Tehama county - Two shootings by officers - Chico Enterprise-Record
(Chico, CA) - July 28, 2018 - page 3
July 28, 2018 | Chico Enterprise-Record (Chico, CA) | By Julie Zeeb jzeeb@redbluffdailynews.com @DN_Zeeb
on Twitter | Article | Page 3

RED BLUFF >> T ehama County officers have been found to be justified in shooting suspects June 6
in Red Bluff and July 7 in Los Molinos.

T he actions were determined to be legal and justified to protect lives and to prevent threat of injury
to the public, Assistant District Attorney Matt Rogers said in a press conference T hursday.

In the Red Bluff incident, the T ehama County Sheriff’s Office was contacted about 11:30 a.m. June
6 by the girlfriend of Abraham Flores
Abraham Flores , the armed man, reporting he was suicidal and armed with a
pistol and scoped rifle.

T he woman told law enforcement he had sent her a text message saying he was at the old
Diamond Mill property. When she said she was going to call the police, he said “I’m going to make
them kill me.”

His position was on a dirt mound more than 26 feet above law enforcement, Rogers said. T his
vantage point gave him an unobstructed view and put targets at risk at the nearby Shasta College
T ehama Campus, the Red Bluff Diversion Dam campground, traffic on Interstate 5 and Highway
99W, as well as approaching law enforcement.

Law enforcement staged about 200 yards away. T he girlfriend spent about 42 minutes on the
mound trying to convince him to let law enforcement help him. Flores refused and indicated he
wanted to be shot, Rogers said.

Flores taunted deputies, Rogers said. He showed a photo of Flores holding his arms out
perpendicular to his body with a firearm in each hand, taken about 10 seconds prior to being shot
by a sheriff’s sergeant who believed Flores was about to shoot.

Medics responded, but Flores was already dead, Rogers said. Additional weapons were recovered
from his vehicle.

In the July 7 incident at the Dollar General in Los Molinos, Rogers said the deputy’s actions not only
saved his life and the woman who was on a ride-along, but quite possibly other members of the
public.

Because of the suspect’s criminal history and possession of 12 ounces of cocaine, five pounds of
marijuana and THC vape capsules, it was “an understatement that he was up to no good,” Rogers
said.

T he incident began just before 7:30 p.m. when the deputy saw Jose Alfredo Barajas, 28, of
Stockton, switching a license plate in the Dollar General parking lot. T he deputy gathered probable
cause to search the vehicle, at which point Barajas became combative and a struggle ensued.
Barajas got in and locked his vehicle.

Believing a pursuit was about to begin, the deputy got into his vehicle. Barajas lowered his window
and fired a semi-automatic, large caliber rifle at the deputy. Barajas sped away, headed north on
Highway 99.

He was seen entering northbound Interstate 5 in Red Bluff where a California Highway Patrol
officer and two Red Bluff Police units attempted to overtake the vehicle. Barajas was a
considerable distance ahead of law enforcement when he lost control, crashing on the east side of
I-5 north of Jellys Ferry Road.

Barajas was found dead inside the vehicle. Based on significant damage to the rear of the sedan
and the lack of air bag deployment in a seat with a passenger sensor, authorities determined there
was no second person.

Barajas had two AK-47 rifles, two AR-15 rifles and two Glock pistols in his possession along with
multiple high capacity magazines.

“Barajas possessed over 1,000 rounds for his AK-47 rifles and over 1,000 rounds for his glock
pistols,” Rogers said. “Between rifle casings located at the shooting scene in Los Molinos and
inside Barajas’ vehicle, it was discovered that Barajas fired his AK-47 rifle 71 times.”

T he deputy’s vehicle was struck 27 times. T he deputy, who was hit three times, protected his
passenger prior to getting out and returning fire. Two of his wounds were graze wounds, but one
entered and exited his left shoulder.

T he woman was hit twice with graze wounds and the police dog in the rear cage of the vehicle was
not injured.

T he deputy fired his weapon 16 times with five rounds hitting Barajas and six hitting his vehicle. T he
self-inflicted shot to the head was the cause of death, Rogers said. T here was a suicide note found
in the vehicle at the crash scene.

Contact reporter Julie Zeeb at 530-737-5053.

(c) 2018 Chico Enterprise-Record. All rights reserved. Reproduced with the permission of Media NewsGroup, Inc. by NewsBank, Inc.

 