Press conference - Details released on two - Red Bluff Daily News (CA) -
July 27, 2018 - page 1
July 27, 2018 | Red Bluff Daily News (CA) | By Julie Zeeb jzeeb@redbluffdailynews.com @DN_Zeeb on Twitter
| Article | Page 1

RED BLUFF >> A press conference was held Thursday afternoon where T ehama County Assistant
District Attorney Matt Rogers released additional details about two officer-involved shooting
incidents, one of which was June 6 in Red Bluff and another July 7 in Los Molinos.

T he actions of law enforcement in both situations was determined to be legal and justified to
protect lives and to prevent threat of injury to the public, Rogers said.

Lives were at risk in the Red Bluff incident, in which a man with a handgun and scoped rifle was on a
dirt mound more than 26 feet above law enforcement, Rogers said. T his vantage point gave him
an unobstructed view and put targets at risk both at the nearby Shasta College T ehama Campus,
the Red Bluff Diversion Dam campground, traffic on Interstate 5 and 99W as well as approaching
law enforcement.

About 11:30a.m. the T ehama County Sheriff’s Office was contacted by the girlfriend of Abraham
Abraham
Flores , the armed man, reporting he was suicidal and armed with a pistol and scoped rifle.
Flores

T he woman told law enforcement he was at the old Diamond Mill property and sent a text
message letting her know where he was. When she said she was going to call the police, he said
“I’m going to make them kill me.”

T he incident had begun about 2 a.m. June 6 when Flores, armed with a hand gun, threatened to
commit suicide by cop if his girlfriend called the police, Rogers said.

Law enforcement staged about 200 yards away from Flores, whose girlfriend was on the mound
to the right of him trying to convince him to let law enforcement help him. Flores refused and
indicated he wanted to be shot, Rogers said.

Flores taunted deputies and Rogers showed a photo of Flores holding his arms out perpendicular
to his body with a firearm in each hand, taken about 10 seconds prior to being shot by a sheriff’s
sergeant who believed Flores was about to shoot. T he girlfriend had been removed from the
situation, after about 42 minutes of unsuccessful attempts to negotiate.

Medics responded immediately to render aid but Flores was already dead, Rogers said. Additional
weapons were recovered from Flores’ vehicle.

Flores had a lengthy criminal history dating back to 2005 with charges including trespassing,
resisting arrest, domestic violence and DUI, Rogers said.

After the July 7 incident at the Dollar General in Los Molinos, law enforcement was thankful the
deputy and his passenger survived, Rogers said. T he deputy’s actions not only saved his life and
the woman who was on a ride-along, but quite possibly other members of the public.

Because of the suspect’s criminal history and possession of 12 ounces of cocaine, five pounds of
marijuana and THC vape capsules, it was “an understatement that he was up to no good,” Rogers
said.

T he incident began just before 7:30 p.m. when the deputy saw Jose Alfredo Barajas, 28, of
Stockton, switching a license plate in the Dollar General parking lot.

T he deputy gathered probable cause to search the vehicle, at which point Barajas became
combative and a struggle ensued. Barajas got in and locked his vehicle.

Believing a pursuit was about to begin, the deputy got into his vehicle. Barajas lowered his window
and fired a semi-automatic, large caliber rifle at the deputy. Barajas sped away, headed north on
State Route 99E.

Barajas sped north on SR99E and was seen entering northbound Interstate 5 in Red Bluff where a
California Highway Patrol officer and two Red Bluff Police units attempted to overtake the vehicle.

Barajas was a considerable distance ahead of law enforcement when he lost control, crashing on
the east side of I-5 north of Jellys Ferry Road near the Red Bluff Rest Area.

A motorist saw the crash and, not knowing about the criminal activity, approached the vehicle to
help. T he witness reported hearing a single gunshot coming from inside the vehicle and seeing
another suspect flee.

Barajas was found dead inside the vehicle. Based on significant damage to the rear of the sedan
and the lack of air bag deployment in a seat with a passenger sensor, authorities determined there
was no second person.

Barajas had two AK-47 rifles, two AR-15 rifles and two Glock pistols in his possession along with
multiple high capacity magazines.

“Barajas possessed over 1,000 rounds for his AK-47 rifles and over 1,000 rounds for his glock
pistols,” Rogers said. “Between rifle casings located at the shooting scene in Los Molinos and
inside Barajas’ vehicle, it was discovered that Barajas fired his AK-47 rifle 71 times.”

T he deputy’s vehicle was struck 27 times. T he deputy, who was hit three times, protected his
passenger prior to getting out and returning fire. Two of his wounds were graze wounds, but one
entered and exited his left shoulder.

T he woman was hit twice with graze wounds and the police dog in the rear cage of the vehicle was
not injured.

T he deputy fired his weapon 16 times with five rounds hitting Barajas and six hitting his vehicle. T he

self-inflicted shot to the head was the cause of death, Rogers said. T here was a suicide note found
in the vehicle at the crash scene.

Contact reporter Julie Zeeb at 530-737-5053.

(c) 2018 Red Bluff Daily News. All rights reserved. Reproduced with the permission of Media NewsGroup, Inc. by NewsBank, Inc.

 