BART RELEASES VIDEO OF POLICE SHOOTING - FAMILY OF - East Bay
Times (CA) - February 22, 2018 - page 1A
February 22, 2018 | East Bay Times (CA) | Angela Ruggiero, aruggiero@bayareanewsgroup.com | Page 1A

OAKLAND >> In BART  police body-camera footage of a deadly officer-involved shooting last
month, released by the agency on Wednesday, three shots are heard as an officer appears to
shoot a man in the back during his last moments.

Shaleem T indle
Shaleem T indle, 28, was killed at 4:41 p.m. Jan. 3 in the 1400 block of Seventh Street across from
the West Oakland BART  station. His family had recently viewed a full version of the body cam video
and had previously leaked to the media a short cellphone clip they captured during the showing.

T he videos do not clearly show Tindle holding a gun, as BART  police have insisted, although police
cautioned it's just one piece of information that should not be taken out of context.

At anews conference late Wednesday afternoon, apparently responding to the family's release of
the shorter video clip, BART  Police Chief Carlos Rojas made the full video public for the first time.
He also affirmed that the BART  officer involved, Joseph Mateu, was back on duty two weeks after
theshooting.

Rojas criticized the leaked version's impact on the ongoing investigation.

"I think it does present problems when we're trying to protect the integrity of the investigation,"
Rojas said. "We do have to remember it is evidence that is graphic and desired by a lot of people to
view. … T he video of just one piece of evidence … it does take the investigation out of context."

T he footage released by BART  police is the full unedited sequence captured by Officer Mateu's
body camera from that day. In the just-over one-minute video, the officer runs to the scene where
he sees two men in a scuffle, repeatedly shouting "Let me see your hands" directed at both men.

T indle has his back to Mateu and was on his knees when he was approached by the officer. T hen
three shots can be heard, and Tindle is seen rolling over on his back, his empty hands in the air, as
he looks over at the officer.

Police said Tindle was shot by Mateu for allegedly refusing to drop a gun. T he other man, who
appears in the video, had been in a struggle with Tindle and also was wounded. He was said to be
shot in the leg, according to witnesses and T indle's family attorney.

In still photos from the released video, BART  officials highlight what appears to be a gun — first in
the other man's hand — and then in the next frame on the ground near Tindle as he rolls over on
his back.

T he chief said authorities believe that the gun may have been in T indle's hands when he was shot,

and then his hands were up and empty after he was shot by the officer.

He asked the public to reserve judgment until the "natural course of the investigation is complete."

Karim Mayfield, T indle's brother and a professional boxer, posted the shorter, 20-second video clip
online with the caption "… leaked footage of my brothers murder, proving that the police and
media lied! My brother was shot in his back unarmed."

An unidentified black object could be seen at T indle's feet, in between him and the other man, in
both the full video and short clip. However, it wasn't identified by authorities on Wednesday.

Oakland police said that the investigation is active and ongoing and would not release any
additional information on Wednesday, including the video, said Officer Johnna Watson.

Last week, his family announced they would be filing a claim against BART  and the officer, seeking
damages for the allegedly wrongful death. T hey also called for the public release of the video and
prosecution by the Alameda County District Attorney's Office against Mateu.

John Burris, the family's attorney, saidthe video did not support the police narrative of what
occurred that day and claims that the police narrative is false. He said Wednesdayhe wasn't aware
that the family even had the short video clip.

He maintainsthe body-camera video footage shows Tindle was unarmed and appeared to be
complying with the officer. T he man had his back to Mateu and was bringing his empty hands into
the air when he was shot, according to Burris.

"He didn't have a basis to just willy-nilly decide to just recklessly shoot somebody without knowing
what in fact that person had done or was doing at the time he shot him," Burris said.

Burris said the officer "didn't have enough information to justify using deadly force."

"T here is no lawful or justifiable reason for Officer Mateu to fire three shots into Shaleem's back,"
Burris said.

T he Alameda County District Attorney's Office is investigating theshooting as is the Oakland Police
Department.

George Kelly contributed to this report. Contact Angela Ruggiero at 510-293-2469.

Copyrig ht © 2018 East Bay Times.

 