Family seeks murder charge for BART cop - San Francisco Chronicle
(CA) - February 14, 2018 - page D1
February 14, 2018 | San Francisco Chronicle (CA) | Sarah Ravani | Page D1

T he family of an Oakland man shot and killed by a BART  police officer last month say body camera
footage proves their relative was murdered.

Yolanda Banks was joined by dozens of people Tuesday afternoon near the West Oakland BART
Station, where her 28-year-old son, Sahleem T indle, was killed by a transit police officer on the
afternoon of Jan. 3. She and family members, as well as civil rights attorney John Burris, called on
authorities to release body camera footage of the incident and hold Officer Joseph Mateu
accountable.

"After a while you cry and you cry, the tears have to come out because you have to feel the pain,"
Banks said. "I feel the pain."

Burris, who is representing the family in a civil suit, said video footage shown to the family by
Oakland police proves that there was no firearm in T indle's hands when he was shot three times in
the back.

T he incident first started when Tindle and an unidentified man began wrestling with each other
across the street from the BART  station, Burris said. T he two men were "hugging each other," he
said, with one person in a headlock and the other in a waist-lock when the officer ran up to the
station, which is near the intersection of Seventh and Chester streets.

Authorities said Tindle ignored commands to drop a handgun, forcing Mateu to fire his weapon.

Burris made arrangements for the family to privately view the body camera footage through the
Oakland Police Department. Banks, 58, told T he Chronicle that the footage left her "disturbed" with
"so many things running through my mind."

She added, "What I'm going to continue to feel is my heart tearing. You wouldn't want no one to
feel that, no mother or father to endure that."

Burris said the video included audio of the officer saying, "Show me your hands, show me hands."

"Within moments," Burris said, Mateu shot Tindle in the back three times. T he officer "could not
have seen a weapon of any kind," Burris said.

A handgun was recovered from the scene, authorities said, but Burris has challenged T indle's
possession of the weapon.

Laquisha Stanley told T he Chronicle just moments after the shooting that she was at a nearby

doughnut shop when she noticed her friend get into a dispute with T indle, a man he apparently
knew. T he pair argued as they walked down the street, she said, before Tindle allegedly shot
Stanley's friend in the leg.

Burris argued that Mateu did not have enough evidence to know whether Tindle had a gun before
intervening.

"Did the officer have sufficient evidence to justify the shooting?" Burris said. "He didn't. T hat's the
facts."

T indle was at the BART  station to meet his girlfriend and two young children, Burris said.

"We want justice, yes we do," said T indle's father, Yhshky. "I'm still lost for words. I don't know
what to do."

In addition to calling for Mateu to be charged with murder, T indle's family is pursuing a civil suit
against the officer and the BART  Police Department.

Mateu was hired by BART  as a community service assistant in 2003 and became a police officer in
2005, said Alicia T rost, a spokeswoman for BART . He was promoted to the rank of senior officer
in January 2010.

BART  issued a statement Tuesday afternoon noting that "any loss of life is tragic," and both the
transit police and the Oakland Police Department are investigating the events of Jan. 3. T he transit
agency also touted reforms implemented in recent years, including an independent police auditor
and a BART  police citizen review board.

At the conclusion of the investigations and a review by the Alameda County district attorney's
office, BART  said, the agency will release the body camera footage.

“What I’m going to continue to feel is my heart tearing. You wouldn’t want no one to feel that.”

Yolanda Banks, mother

(c) San Francisco Chronicle 2018

 