Oakland cops probe fatal shooting by BART officer - San Francisco
Chronicle (CA) - January 5, 2018 - page D1
January 5, 2018 | San Francisco Chronicle (CA) | Jenna Lyons | Page D1

T he man shot and killed by a BART  Police officer has been identified by police as a 28-year-old
Oakland man.

Oakland police provided additional details on a Wednesday evening officer-involved shooting
across from the West Oakland BART  Station, confirming that an on-duty BART  police officer was
Shaleem T indle.
responding to a shooting in the area when he later fired at and killed Shaleem T indle

T indle's relatives mourned his death on social media, including Karim Mayfield, a boxer who has
fought across the country and won the WBO NABO super lightweight title in 2011.

"My Heart Is broken, I lost my little brother Shaleem last night. Please don't ask me I'm I ok,
becoase (sic) I'm obviously not," he posted to Facebook.

T he BART  officer was inside the station when he heard shots about 4:40 p.m., according to the
Oakland Police Department.

T he officer found two men "in a struggle with each other" at Seventh and Chester streets. One
man was armed with a handgun, police said.

"After several commands were given, the officer discharged his firearm striking the man who was
in possession of the handgun," the department said. "He later succumbed to his injuries."

Authorities said a gun was found at the scene.

Witness accounts of the incident were similar. One witness told T he Chronicle that two men were
arguing before shots rang out. Another said she saw one man shoot the other in the leg, which led
a BART  police officer to run across the street from the station and shoot him.

Police are investigating how the second man was injured. T he BART  officer's body camera
recorded the incident.

A nearly 10-minute video of the aftermath of the incident posted to Facebook shows no clear
perimeter established at the scene as one man lies on the ground handcuffed and held by a police
officer and another man lies motionless.

Before officers begin life-saving measures, one woman rushes over to the body, tries to perform
CPR and is shooed away. Officers begin CPR about two minutes into the video.

T he identity of the BART  officer has not been released.

T he Oakland Police Department's homicide section is investigating the initial shooting and
subsequent officer-involved shooting. Anyone with information is asked to call the Oakland Police
Department Homicide Section at (510) 238-3821.

(c) San Francisco Chronicle 2018

 