Suspect killed by Shelby Twp. police during - Detroit News, The (MI) -
November 6, 2018 - page B1
November 6, 2018 | Detroit News, The (MI) | James David Dickson | Page B1

Shelby Township – T he Macomb County Sheriff's Office said Monday a man shot and killed by a
Kanwarbir M alhi, 25, of Shelby T ownship.
Shelby Township police officer has been identified as Kanwarbir M alhi

Malhi had stolen his parents vehicle, and he was pulled over by police, officials said.

An officer spotted the 2005 Honda and Malhi at about 1 a.m. Saturday at Spring Hill Apartments,
said Shelby Township Police Chief Robert Shelide at a news conference Monday at the station.

Shelide said the incident was captured from "four different angles" via dash cam; none of that
footage was aired Monday. T he Macomb County Sheriff's Office, which has taken over the
investigation, could not immediately be reached.

Officers said they issued verbal commands to Malhi, which Shelide said were ignored. T hen,
without being told by police, he allegedly exited the Honda.

His "furtive movements," along with telling the police he had a weapon, were followed by a single
gunshot from a 17-year veteran of the force. Malhi was transported to Troy Beaumont Hospital,
where he died.

"In my experience, when someone tells you who they are, and what they're about, you listen," said
Shelide. "It's a dark parking lot, in the middle of the night."

T he officer who fired the fatal shot is on leave and will be until the investigation is complete.

Deputy Chief Mark Coil said: "It's a tragic situation."

In an ideal situation, he said, the suspect would have complied with police demands, been taken
peacefully into custody and given any help he needed.

When pulled over by police, Coil said, "it's not the time to disobey commands."

T he officer on leave is "doing as well as he can be, under the circumstances," Shelide said.

No weapon was immediately recovered from Malhi, but Shelide was careful not to say that there
was no gun.

T he case had been turned over to the sheriff's office before police could search the Honda, he
said.

jdickson@detroitnews.com

(c) 2018, The Detroit News. All rights reserved.

 