
 
"Nobody wants to do this. This is 

the last thing that our officers 

want to do." 

Robert J. Shelide 

Shelby Twp. Police Chief 

DETROIT –A man fatally shot by a Shelby Township police officer in an apartment complex parking lot on Saturday

has been identified by the Macomb County Sheriff's Office. 

According to Shelby Township police, officers were investigating a stolen vehicle at the Spring Hill Apartments on

Spring Lane at 1 a.m. 

The vehicle was occupied by a man, now identified as Kanwarbir Malhi, 25, of Shelby Township. 

He "refused to comply with officers repetitive verbal commands and informed officers that he was armed," a news

release from the police department said. 

The officer then fired his weapon to "to stop his aggressive action." Police said Malhi sustained "a single gunshot

wound," was treated on the scene by officers and members of the Shelby Township Fire Department, then taken to

Troy Beaumont Hospital. 

Malhi died due to his injuries, and the officer who fired the shot has been placed on administrative leave. 

The ongoing investigation has been turned over to the Macomb County Sheriff's Office. 

At a press conference on Monday, Shelby Twp. Police Chief Robert J. Shelide clarified details of the incident. He

said police were contacted by Malhi's parents, who said their son stole their vehicle on Friday. On Saturday, he

said, Malhi was spotted by officers on patrol in the apartment complex parking lot. 

Shelide said four officers encountered Malhi, but he refused to listen to their verbal commands and told them he

"There were furtive hand gestures made along with verbal statement, and that's what lead our officer into firing his

weapon," Shelide said. "Our officers (are) out there protecting our community, but they also have to protect

was armed. 

themselves." 

Shelide said the incident was a family matter that became a tragic situation. He added that the officer who shot

Malhi has been on Shelby Police force for 17 years, "with an exemplary record." 

"Nobody wants to do this," Shelide said. "This is the last thing that our officers want to do." 

Shelide said he's aware that prior to this incident, Malhi has had multiple contacts with police officers —but with

another department. Dash cam footage of the incident was also recorded. 

The sheriff's office will be taking everything into consideration in their investigation, Shelide said. 

This marked the second fatal shooting by a police officer in Macomb County in two days. 

The Macomb County Sheriff's Office has identified the man who was shot and killed Sunday in an exchange with

St. Clair Shores police outside a banquet hall as a 29-year-old Detroiter. 

A police dog named Axe also died in the line of duty during the incident. 

Officers were responding to calls of an armed man outside the Lakeland Manor on Harper Avenue between 10 and

11 Mile roads, where about 70 people were gathered inside, police said. 

The man, now identified as Theoddeus Gray, was standing outside armed with a rifle and handgun, ignored

demands from officers and attempted to flee on foot, police said. 

Axe, the department's K-9, was deployed and then reportedly shot by Gray with a handgun. Then, officers returned

fire and struck the suspect, who was taken to a hospital and pronounced dead. 

The Sheriff's Office is heading the investigation but has not shared further details about the incident or a possible

motive. 

Omar Abdel-Baqui also contributed to this report. 

"Nobody wants to do this. This is 

the last thing that our officers 

want to do." 

Robert J. Shelide 

Shelby Twp. Police Chief 

CREDIT: Aleanna Siacon 
 
 
