Shelby Township officer involved in fatal shooting - Shelby-Utica News
(MI) - November 5, 2018
November 5, 2018 | Shelby-Utica News (MI) | Kara Szymanski

SHELBY T OWNSHIP— A Shelby Township police officer was involved in a fatal shooting that took
place at an apartment complex in Shelby Township Nov. 3.

T he incident occurred at 1 a.m. at Spring Hill Apartments, located at 45710 Spring Lane in Shelby
T ownship, which is near Ryan and West Utica roads.

According to the Shelby Township Police Department, on Nov. 1, a family from Spring Hill
Apartments called police and reported that their son was missing and that they were concerned
about him. T he department reportedly located the family's son Nov. 2. On Nov. 3, the family
reported to police that their son had stolen their 2005 Honda Civic, according to Shelby T ownship
police.

"A patrol car that was parked in the parking lot saw the Honda Civic that looked like the stolen
vehicle drive by and ran the plate, called for backup and did a felony stop, and tried to get him (the
suspect) to comply. He refused; he came out of the car and announced he was armed and made
gestures, and they (the police) fired and struck him and immediately rendered aid. He was
transported to Troy Beaumont Hospital, where he was pronounced deceased by a doctor at the
hospital," Shelby Township Police Chief Robert Shelide said in a phone interview.

T he suspect who was shot was identified by the Macomb County Sheriff's Office as Kanwarbir
Kanwarbir
M alhiM alhi, 25, of Shelby T ownship. He was shot one time, according to Shelby Township police.

Regarding whether Malhi was armed, Shelide said no weapon was located after the shooting.

According to the Shelby Township Police Department, the patrol officers' vehicles have dashcam
video from four different angles that captured the incident.

T he investigation has been turned over to the Macomb County Sheriff's Office, and the officer
involved has been placed on administrative leave.

"I thought it was imperative to have another department take over, and it is standard protocol for
this type of situation. It is very imperative that we keep in mind and have deep sympathy for the
deceased and the family, and the officer involved," said Shelide.

T he suspect had just moved to Shelby Township about four to six months ago and had multiple
contacts with police in Sterling Heights, according to Shelide.

T he officer involved is highly decorated and has 14 years with the department, Shelide said.

"I would say it's a tragic event, and it's unfortunate that this individual wouldn't comply, and if he
had, he would have been taken into custody peacefully and we would have gotten him the help he
needed," said Shelby Township Deputy Police Chief Mark Coil.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Shelby-Utica News (MI), All Rights Reserved.

 