Ex-officer faces trial in deadlyshooting - Express-Times, The (Easton,
PA) - September 21, 2018 - page 001
September 21, 2018 | Express-Times, The (Easton, PA) | Rudy Miller For The Express-Times | Page 001

Former police officer Jonathan Roselle responded to what he thought was a carjacking, according
to his attorney.

T he ex-South Whitehall Township officer encountered Joseph Santos
body camera pointing to his own eyes, then pointing to the officer in what attorney Gavin Holihan
said Roselle interpreted as a threatening gesture.

Joseph Santos , who is seen on Roselle’s

T he video shown Thursday at the Lehigh County Courthouse showed a bloody Santos climb onto
the hood of Roselle’s police SUV, ignore Roselle’s commands to get off and ignore Roselle’s gun
pointed through the window at him.

When backup didn’t arrive quickly, Roselle got out of his car and shot Santos ending a “real and
genuine threat of harm,” Holihan said.

Lehigh County Judge Daniel T rexler disagreed. He ordered Roselle to stand trial on a charge of
voluntary manslaughter after Thursday’s preliminary hearing.

T he video shows an unarmed Santos approach Roselle on Route 222 in front of Dorney Park on
July 28. Through Roselle’s body camera you can see Santos walk slowly toward Roselle with his
hands visible and arms waving slowly by his sides.

Roselle is standing just outside the driver’s side door, repeatedly yelling at Santos to drop to the
ground. Santos keeps advancing toward the rear of the SUV and says “Don’t do it” to the officer
with the drawn gun. When Santos gets about 5 feet from the rear of the SUV, Roselle fires.

Santos took two bullets in his head and three in the torso, according to Lehigh County Detective
James Bruchak. A woman wearing a T -shirt with Santos’ picture on it sobbed during the graphic
footage shown in court.

Santos’ fiancée had said they were at Dorney Park that day when he left to buy cigarettes. T he 44-
year-old from Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey, had a history of drug abuse, but it didn’t justify
Roselle’s decision to kill him, she said.

A huge protest in support of Santos came a week after the shooting. T hat was followed by a pro-
police rally attended by more than 100 people in support of Roselle. T he 33-year-old Parryville,
Carbon County, man’s employment with the South Whitehall Police Department ended after the
shooting, authorities have said.

Lehigh County Assistant District Attorney Jeffery Dimmig said Roselle’s justifications for the

shooting don’t matter. For purposes of the preliminary hearing, he needed only to prove that
Roselle killed Santos and had a specific intent to do so.

Holihan argued that Roselle was motivated by Santos’ bizarre behavior. Santos had “unnatural
strength” and a high tolerance for pain that day, evidenced by the fact that he wore only socks and
stepped on broken glass, Holihan said. He seemed oblivious to the blood coming off his body,
Holihan said.

A toxicology report showed Santos had methadone, codeine, morphine, hydromorphine and a
metabolite of heroin in his system at that time, Bruchak said. It’s unclear whether they were all
ingested as part of one dose or ingested separately, Bruchak said.

Holihan said Roselle’s inaction may have allowed Santos to get control of the police SUV and its
potentially dangerous contents. Without action, Santos would have continued to put the lives of
the many bystanders in jeopardy, Holihan said.

Bystander video of the event has circulated on Facebook, but in court Thursday witnesses saw and
heard what Roselle saw and said by way of his body camera.

A hysterical woman is heard over his police radio asking for help due to a man trying to break her
car window. T hen Roselle drives toward the Comfort Suites hotel for what he tells dispatch is a
man with a “possible mental issue.”

You see a distressed Santos approach the SUV as Roselle barks, “Go that way. Get in front of my
vehicle right now.”

T hat’s where Santos makes the gesture with his fingers toward Roselle through the front driver’s
side window. He ignores commands to get in front of the car and climbs on the hood, smearing
blood from his arm on the windshield.

An anguished Santos appears to whimper as Roselle orders him repeatedly, “Get off my vehicle
right now.” Roselle draws his gun and points it toward Santos but Santos doesn’t stop.

T hen Roselle drives with Santos on the hood. He stops and tells dispatch, “T his guy’s covered in
blood and he’s, like, attacking my vehicle so I’m not getting out until one of you guys shows up.”

About a minute goes by and he gets out of the car anyway, ordering Santos onto the ground
repeatedly before shooting him.

When officer Kevin Smith arrives, Roselle tells him, “He wouldn’t stop, man. He just kept coming at
me. (Expletive). He’s done.”

Smith starts performing CPR and tells the stunned Roselle to put on his latex gloves and get an
AED, or automatic external defibrillator out of the SUV. Roselle tries to unlock the rear using the
wrong key. His hand shaking, he finds the correct key and unlocks the rear.

He fumbles with the device, apparently unsure whether it’s the one he wants, as a computerized

voice tells him, “Stay calm and follow these instructions.”

He manages to get pads onto Santos’ body as more police arrive.

T he machine tells an officer administering CPR, “press, press, press, press...” as another officer
takes Roselle aside.

Roselle tells the other officer, “He was coming at me. I told him to stop,” and then, “It’s not, it’s
not, I’m fine. I just, I’m concerned that I (expletive) up.”

Roselle is a U.S. Army veteran who served in Afghanistan and at the time of the shooting was a
major in the Pennsylvania Army National Guard.

He graduated from the Allentown Police Academy in December, then had 13 weeks of training, and
was on patrol by himself for less than five months prior to the incident.

Holihan debated with Dimmig for much of the hearing over whether Holihan could ask
Pennsylvania State Trooper Thomas Rummerfield to comment on his observations about the
video. Rummerfield led the investigation for state police.

Dimmig said Holihan couldn’t ask questions about whether Roselle’s conduct was reasonable
because that wasn’t relevant to the preliminary hearing, only whether Roselle acted with a specific
intent to kill Santos.

Lehigh County District Attorney James Martin was visibly irritated watching the attorneys argue
until he interjected.

“You’ve made your ruling,” he told Judge T rexler, adding that Holihan was inappropriately
continuing his line of questioning.

Holihan said it was inappropriate for Martin to speak since Dimmig was handling the case.

“I’m the district attorney of Lehigh County,” he forcefully asserted. “I’m not going to be stifled by
his interpretation of a rule I’ve never heard of.”

Rudy Miller, NJ Advance Media, rmiller @lehighvalleylive.com

Copyrig ht 2018 The Express-Times. All Rights Reserved.

 