
 
As prosecutors and defense lawyers prepare for the case against the South Whitehall Township police officer who

fatally shot an unarmed man 15 days ago, one aspect of the officer’s life —his military career —may take a central

role in explaining the split-second calculus he used in deciding to open fire. 

No one but the officer, Jonathan Roselle, can say what was going through his mind at the time he shot Joseph

Santos, 44, of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., July 28. 

But experts who evaluate police and military personnel say it’s possible his police officer training to protect and

defend life was overtaken in the heat of the moment by the more intensive combat training he received as a

soldier. 

“Military training is an incredibly emotive, gut-level experience,” said Peter Kraska, an Eastern Kentucky University

professor who has written on police and military training. “It’s meant to deprogram someone’s natural hesitancy to

take a life and get them in a mindset —cognitively and emotionally —where they can do that without a second

thought. And going through a police academy is not going to rout that out.” 

The speculation by Kraska and others was not meant to criticize soldiers, police or their training. Indeed, military

training, with its leadership skills and discipline, is desirable in police work, Kraska said. 

“I know from my own experience that ex-soldiers make excellent police officers,” he said. 

But it also is true that police have become “more military-like,” Kraska said, citing the “extreme levels of fear” police

SWAT teams can incite in the public. 

Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin last week charged Roselle, 33, with voluntary manslaughter in the

shooting death of Santos on Hamilton Boulevard, across from Dorney Park. Santos was seen jumping onto moving

cars along Hamilton Boulevard, and when Roselle responded and ordered him to get on the ground, Santos refused

and continued walking toward the officer. Roselle fired five times, killing Santos. 

Roselle’s lawyer, Gavin Holihan, said he will explore the role his client’s military background may have played in the

shooting. Roselle served in Afghanistan in the infantry, he said. 

He declined to discuss Roselle’s training as a soldier or police officer, but said Roselle’s decision to shoot was a

“judgment call” based on a fear of imminent death or serious bodily injury. Holihan said Roselle believes the fatal

shooting was legally justified. 

Philip Stinson, a Bowling Green State University criminologist who has been tracking police shootings since 2005,

said he too wonders which training Roselle relied on when he drew his gun on Santos. Stinson said he has thought

for years about whether similarly trained officers can “undo those experiences and training that they had with the

military.” 

Videos taken by bystanders of Santos’ walking away from Roselle’s police cruiser, turning around and walking

back while ignoring commands to stop, led Stinson to recall other scenes of police officers’ seeming to fire quickly. 

“I’m looking at patterns over time,” Stinson said. “We see it time and again in some of these videos. It’s hard to

explain their decision-making processes.” 

However, putting the action in a different setting makes Roselle’s decision-making understandable, he said. 

“If it were a military situation, the shooting makes sense,” Stinson said 

A U.S. Department of Defense spokesman said the department does not discuss the rules of engagement for

soldiers in Afghanistan, which would define when a soldier’s use of force would be warranted. 

Allentown police declined to be interviewed about training at the police academy, which Roselle completed in

December, according to Martin. 

Pennsylvania officials said the most recent police academy curriculum requires 23 weeks of training, of which 26

hours are devoted to behavior management and crisis intervention, which includes recognizing people with special

needs and responding to people with mental illness. Lehigh County 911 dispatches just before the shooting

recorded Roselle discussing a man, Santos, with possible “mental issues.” 

South Whitehall police Chief Glen A. Dorney also declined to comment, citing the investigation and the potential for

civil litigation. 

Researchers have spent little time assessing the impact of military service on police forces, according to a 2016

study by The Marshall Project, a journalism nonprofit focusing on criminal justice. That’s even though 1 in every 5

police officers is a veteran, it said. 

A study by the Pew Research Center last year of nearly 8,000 police officers found that white, male officers

working in large cities —and having military experience —were the characteristics defining those most likely to

have fired their service weapon on the job. Only 27 percent of officers ever fire their gun while on the job, it said. 

A 2013 study in the International Journal of Emergency Mental Health found that police officers without a military

background experienced significantly more physically and psychologically threatening job-related events than

veterans. The findings, it said, “suggest that those officers with prior military experience may be better prepared for

However, it also found that police without military service used effective stress-reducing practices more often than

the stress of police work.” 

police officers with a military background. 

responses. 

Psychologists who work with police and military personnel said the situation Roselle faced could provoke different

Eugene O’Donnell, a former officer with the New York Police Department who teaches at John Jay College of

Criminal Justice, said police know a situation can deteriorate immediately, even with an unarmed man. He noted

two cases in the last month —in Weymouth, Mass., and Fort Myers, Fla. —when an unarmed man gained control of

a police gun and fatally shot an officer. 

Besides military experience, O’Donnell said, Roselle’s lack of police experience and the short time he spent working

by himself are issues to consider. In announcing the charges, Martin also mentioned that Roselle was “relatively

inexperienced.” 

making, he said. 

“At the end of the day, you are talking about a human …who has at least two sets of significant life experiences,”

O’Donnell said, referring to Roselle’s military and police work. “Two very different enterprises.” 

Matt Guller of the Institute for Forensic Psychology in Oakland, N.J., said a military background is “a double-edged

sword” for police officers. Their training is superior, but it may not be appropriate at times for police decision-

Some military veterans also return home with post-traumatic stress disorder, which can be triggered by police

work, Guller said. There has been no suggestion that Roselle experienced PTSD. 

Hiring practices often favor veterans, whose service has long been valued by public and private employers. Civil

service rules in many jurisdictions give preference to veterans, and the Trump administration last year boosted

federal efforts to help veterans make the transition to law enforcement with the signing of the American Law

Enforcement Heroes Act. 

For Roselle’s court case, it’s a long way from the filing of charges to a conviction, Stinson said. Stinson keeps a

database of police shootings that shows officers have been convicted of unjustified shootings 32 times since

2005 —or less than three times a year on average —although police fatally shoot roughly 1,000 people a year. 

------------ 

Two Sunday events 

Supporters of South Whitehall police officer Jonathan Roselle will meet for a rally at 2 p.m. by the Comfort Inn

Suites on Hamilton Boulevard, near the shooting site. 

At the same hour, community groups will hold an interfaith memorial service for Joseph Santos at Resurrected Life

Church, 144 N. Ninth St., Allentown. 

------------ 

tdarragh@mcall.com 

Twitter @tmdarragh 

610-820-6691 

Credit: Tim Darragh 
 
 
