DEADLY MISTAKE - Homeowner dead after shooting - Philadelphia
Daily News (PA) - August 7, 2018 - page 03
August 7, 2018 | Philadelphia Daily News (PA) | Chris Palmer and Joseph A. Gambardello STAFF WRITERS |
Page 03

PHILADELPHIA police shot and killed a 59-year-old Germantown homeowner and wounded his wife
Monday when a SWAT  team showed up at 6 a.m. looking to arrest his grandson and the man
mistook them for intruders and opened fire, hitting one officer in the face.

Police Commissioner Richard Ross said the man - whom he did not identify but whom property and
Ricardo Gidding s  - apparently began shooting in an attempt to
other public records identify as Ricardo Gidding s
protect his home. His wife, 67, was struck by a police round as she tried to run out of the house,
Ross said. She was hospitalized in stable condition.

T he officer, Jaison Potts, 49, was able to walk into Temple University hospital but had to be
sedated and was listed in critical condition. Ross said Monday night that a bullet remained lodged in
Potts' jaw.

Ross said officers knocked and announced themselves several times before seeking to enter the
home to arrest the man's grandson, 20, wanted on weapons violations. Ross said a television was
on inside the home, so it was possible that the homeowner did not hear the warnings.

T he grandson, whom police did not identify, was not there. He turned himself in to police later
Monday, according to Ross.

T he commissioner called what happened in the the early-morning hours "an all-out, absolute
tragedy." It was the fifth time in 2018 that city police have shot someone and the second fatal
shooting, according to police statistics.

Potts, a 20-year veteran of the force who is married and has three children, is expected to survive
but will have a long recovery. He was expected to undergo surgery T uesday, Ross said.

Mayor Kenney, who went to the hospital where Potts was being treated, said the officer was
supposed to start vacation after his shift ended Monday.

T he shooting occurred about 6 a.m. on the 4800 block of Knox Street. Ross said SWAT  officers
"knocked and announced their presence at least three times, indicating they had a search warrant
at that address."

When they did not receive a response, they broke through a front door, Ross said.

Inside, the man had grabbed a handgun, and thinking they were in danger, urged his wife to flee
out the back of the house, Ross said.

Before officers broke through a second door to gain entry to the house, the homeowner began
shooting, according to the commissioner. He fired four bullets; one hit Potts in the face near his
jaw.

Potts' partner, whom Ross did not identify, fired a shotgun five times in return, Ross said. At least
one round hit the homeowner.

T he man's wife was struck in the stomach by a shotgun pellet that ricocheted before striking her,
Ross said. She also suffered back injuries trying to flee the house.

T he homeowner and his wife were taken to Einstein Medical Center. He was later declared dead.
She was listed late Monday in stable condition.

Ross said SWAT  officers serve around 300 warrants a year and had not fired a shot since 2015.

Monday's shooting was "just a tragedy," he said. "It's an absolute unfortunate circumstance all the
way around."

Under department policy, the officer who fired the shots will be placed on desk duty pending the
outcome of an investigation by the Police Department's officer-involved shooting unit.

CPalmer@phillynews.com

215-854-2817

@cs_palmer

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Philadelphia Daily News

 