
 
Publication: Daily O'Collegian, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater OK. 

The Stillwater Police Department will not immediately release the names of the two officers involved in Wednesday

night’s fatal shooting of William John Dominguez, 31.  

Capt. Kyle Gibbs, SPD’s public information officer, said the department will not release the officers’ names until the

Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation’s homicide investigation and SPD’s internal investigation are complete.  

OSBI public information officer Jessica Brown said she would not release the officer’s names because they are

“I don’t release any names in such a category unless they have been arrested or charged with a crime,” Brown said

Although OSBI will not release the officers’ names, Brown said any other department, such as SPD, could release

suspects in an ongoing investigation.  

in a text Thursday.  

the names “if they wish.”  

SPD chief Ryan McCaghren’s “position and practice” is “that we will not release the names until both the criminal

and administrative investigations are complete,” Gibbs said in a text Friday.  

SPD’s internal investigation will not begin until OSBI’s has concluded, and as of Friday, OSBI’s investigation is

ongoing.  

Normally, an officer’s name or badge number is found in the radio log next to any case he or she responded to and

in the corresponding public incident report, pursuant to the Oklahoma Open Records Act. But in this particular

case, neither officer who fired at Dominguez is listed in the radio log or public incident report. The badge number in

the radio log belongs to an SPD detective and the officer listed in the public incident report is a shift supervisor,

and neither shot Dominguez, Gibbs said.  

The names and badge numbers of the officers who shot Dominguez are not listed in the radio log or public incident

report because they did not file the initial report, Gibbs said. When officers are involved in a shooting, it is SPD’s

policy to allow them at least 72 hours before they have to write a report.    

“They had to shoot a person,” Gibbs said. “By policy, under an administrative investigation, we can’t even ask them

any questions for 72 hours.”  

days afterward.  

Gibbs said this policy is largely based on psychological reasons related to post-traumatic stress disorder, such as

memory fragmentation, when a person is unable to relay the full memory of a traumatic event until a couple of

Oklahoma City and Tulsa police departments almost always release an officer’s name a couple of days after or

immediately following an officer-involved shooting, contrasting Stillwater’s departmental practices.  

Brown said Oklahoma City and Tulsa police departments are large enough to conduct their own criminal

investigations of officer-involved shootings, so it is up to their respective investigators whether to release

suspects’ names.  

unbiased.  

Gibbs said SPD had OSBI take over this case to ensure the criminal investigation into the officers’ actions is

Upon completion, OSBI will present a report to the Payne County District Attorney’s office, and prosecutors will

determine whether to file charges against either of the officers.  

Until then, Brown said they will remain nameless.  
 
 
