
 
Publication: Daily O'Collegian, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater OK. 

One week after Stillwater police officers fatally shot William John Dominguez, the department reportedly cannot

find the second dashcam video from the shooting.  

Dominguez, 31, called 911 at about 8:15 p.m. March 28 and told dispatchers he was wielding a gun and knife and

feeling suicidal. Dominguez told dispatch he wanted to run into traffic on Boomer Road.  

Upon contact with two Stillwater officers, Dominguez “produced” his weapons and didn't comply with officers’

commands, according to an SPD press release. Officers fired four rounds, killing Dominguez.   

The O’Colly requested the corresponding dashcam video from the police department Thursday but received

redacted video from only one of the two patrol cars that initially responded to Dominguez’ call for service. Friday,

the  O’Colly requested the video from the other patrol car’s dashcam, but the department claimed the footage is

SPD Capt. Kyle Gibbs said the second dashcam video is not immediately available because of “technical

missing.  

difficulties.”  

Gibbs said every SPD marked patrol car has a dashcam that records events throughout officers’ shifts. Those

events are automatically uploaded to SPD’s server when patrol cars connect to the department’s Wi-Fi.  

Gibbs said the second patrol car’s dashcam never automatically uploaded its footage from March 28. Upon further

investigation, Gibbs said he discovered the dashcam in that patrol car hasn't uploaded anything since Feb. 1,

leaving more than two months' worth of footage in limbo.  

Technical glitches are rare in the dashcam system the department uses, Gibbs said, but this one is outstanding.    

Since 2014, SPD has used WatchGuard Video equipment in its patrol cars, specifically the HD 4RE In-Car Recording

System, Gibbs said. WatchGuard’s system has Record-After-The-Fact, a technology that allows users to record

video days after an event, according to WatchGuard’s website.  

Gibbs said he's hopeful the department can recover the second dashcam video using Record-After-The-Fact, but

he's not sure.  

Even if the footage is found, Gibbs said it’s likely the shooting was off-screen in the second dashcam video

because the angle of the second patrol car appears to point away from the incident in the other dashcam video.  

As of Tuesday night, the department hadn't located the video.  

On March 28, SPD requested the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation to investigate Dominguez’ shooting, a

practice common among smaller police departments in Oklahoma. Gibbs said SPD did this to ensure there would

be no bias in the investigation into the officers’ actions.  

When the homicide investigation is complete, OSBI will present a report to the Payne County District Attorney’s

Office, and prosecutors will determine whether to file charges against either officer.  

After OSBI’s investigation is complete, Gibbs said SPD’s administrative investigation will begin. SPD will not

release the names of the officers involved until both investigations are finished, Gibbs said.   

Although larger cities, such as Tulsa and Oklahoma City, almost immediately release the names of officers

involved in shootings, Gibbs said it's SPD Chief Ryan McCaghren’s “position and practice” to not release the

officers’ names until OSBI’s investigation and SPD’s investigation are complete.  

Jessica Brown, OSBI’s public information officer, said Monday she doesn't have a time frame for the completion of

OSBI’s investigation, but Gibbs said he expected to start SPD’s administrative investigation this week.  
 
 
