
 
Publication: Daily O'Collegian, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater OK. 

The evening of March 28, William John Dominguez called 911 and said he was headed for hell.  

“I have a gun and a knife in my back pocket and my waist,” Dominguez said in the 911 recording the Stillwater

Police Department released. “There’s nothing for me to live for.”  

Dispatcher Vanessa Prince talked with Dominguez, 31, for about 10 minutes as he walked along Boomer Road in

Stillwater. He relayed his long history of mental illness, telling her he had been on “multiple psych meds” since he

was 5.  

medication at all? Ever?”  

“That’s a pretty long history of dealing with it,” Prince said. “Has anything in the past worked, any kind of

“Yeah,” Dominguez replied. “And when I told the doctor that—”  

Dominguez was interrupted when two Stillwater police officers arrived on scene.  

“Hey, buddy, come here,” one officer can be heard saying.  

The officers had driven past Dominguez and pulled into a parking lot near Stillwater High School’s football

stadium. Visible on dashcam footage SPD released, they got out of their cars.  

“Well, I thought about just hitting the lights and turning them on and stopping him,” one officer said. “But—”  

“I don’t want to be right next to traffic if he’s suicidal,” the other finished.  

“Exactly.”  

One officer can be seen grabbing his assault rifle from his patrol car.   

“If he’s got a gun in his waistband,” he said.  

The officers moved toward Dominguez, stepping out of one dashcam’s frame. The dashcam in the other officer’s

patrol car reportedly malfunctioned, and SPD has not located its footage.  

The officers cannot be seen, but the audio continues.  

“Did they say his name?” one asked the other. “Did they say what his name was?”  

Seconds after their initial contact, the officers’ tones changed.  

“Don’t do it,” one officer warned. “Don’t do it.”  

“Don’t,” the other commanded. “Don’t do it.”  

Four gunshots rang out. Dominguez was shot and killed.  

Dominguez reportedly pulled out his weapons, and the officers fired “to stop his actions,” according to an SPD

Thursday, officials announced the shooting was justified and released the names of the officers involved.  

Officers Micheal Casteel and Trevor Meridith, and Prince, the dispatcher, all declined requests for comment

press release.   

Thursday.  

‘It was a call for help’  

OSBI agents waited to identify Dominguez until they made contact with his next of kin, which happened two days

after the shooting when his brother, Raphael Dominguez, 29, called them.  

Raphael, who lives in California, said he learned of his brother’s death when one of Dominguez’ friends sent him a

direct message on Facebook.  

dead.’”  

“(The friend) was like, ‘Hey, this isn’t a joke,’” Raphael said. “‘I need one of you guys to answer me. Your brother is

In the 911 call, Dominguez said he didn’t have any family. Raphael said in a phone interview with the  O’Colly  that

he and Dominguez grew up in foster care in California and were constantly separated. Raphael said Dominguez

had moved to Stillwater from Texas about six months ago and was unemployed.  

Raphael said he knew Dominguez struggled with depression and alcoholism, but the brothers kept in touch, and

Raphael had told Dominguez he was always going to be there for him.  

“I watched the dashcam footage,” Raphael said. “I listened to his call. He was literally asking for help. It was a call

for help.”  

About a week before the shooting, Raphael said he told Dominguez to call him if he had any problems, and

Dominguez said he would. Raphael said there's no explanation for the officers’ use of force.  

“I want answers,” Raphael said. “All he was going to do was go home. I feel like the officers maybe literally had

something against him. He had a problem with authority figures, like officers, but still if he would cooperate, why

not a Taser? Why not other options? Why the gun?”  

Raphael said he believed his brother might have “said something officers didn’t like” when they were called to

check on his welfare six days earlier.  

SPD said it had contacted Dominguez only once before his shooting. Officers took Dominguez into protective

custody for a medical evaluation March 19 after an unidentified caller told police Dominguez was having “suicidal

ideations,” according to an SPD press release.  

But records the  O’Colly  obtained from SPD showed an unidentified person called in a welfare check on Dominguez

on March 22 because he “did not show up for his appointment.” Dispatchers contacted Dominguez, and he told

them he had overslept. The report does not detail any interaction between Dominguez and officers.  

In the 911 call, Dominguez said he had a gun, but Raphael said he didn’t think his brother had a real gun. He said

he knew Dominguez owned a BB gun but did not have any carbon dioxide cartridges.  

Raphael also said Dominguez had been cutting himself, but a woman he was “talking to” had taken his knife.  

Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation declined to comment on what weapons were recovered from the scene.  

Casteel and Meridith were placed on paid administrative leave for about two weeks until OSBI finished the criminal

investigation.  

The officers were not identified until Thursday, when prosecutors of the Payne County District Attorney’s Office

determined the shooting was justified and the SPD administrative investigation was completed, according to an

SPD press release. The officers returned to work earlier this week, SPD Capt. Kyle Gibbs said.  

“I just want (the officers) to know, like, that was wrong,” Raphael said. “I’m sure if they had a family member and

somebody shot them, they wouldn’t be happy."  

‘Why not other options? Why the gun?’  

In the days following the shooting, citizens voiced criticism on social media:   

Stillwater PD has had this man laying in the street for an hour now. —CHUN-LI (@TheHighrolla) March 29, 2018  

Tragic. I'm heart broken for his family. Waiting for the name to be released. Wonder how it would have played out if

the cops had not pulled their guns. —Laura Hedrick (@Waterdancer99) March 29, 2018 +6 Stillwater News

Press/Facebook +6 Stillwater News Press/Facebook  

Dominguez told dispatchers he was suicidal, and many social media comments referred to his death as “suicide by

cop.”  

cop” is a “slang, unofficial term.”  

Geoffrey Alpert, a criminology and criminal justice professor at the University of South Carolina, said “suicide by

Alpert has studied high-risk police activities for more than 25 years, including police use of force, officer decision-

making and the effectiveness of less-lethal technology available to police.  

“Suicide by cop” is a term based on perception, Alpert said, because “you really don’t know.” He said shootings can

have the components of a “suicide by cop” situation, in which a desperate person purposefully draws a lethal

reaction from police, but “to put a label on it like that is much more unofficial.”  

Alpert said police officers' use of force should depend on the threat level they encounter in a situation. He said

officers generally do not want to kill or injure someone, but they have to act to protect their own lives. +6 Kelsy

Schlotthauer/O'Colly  

and killed Ralph Willis, a murder suspect.  

Before March 28, the latest officer-involved shooting in Stillwater was Jan. 29, 2015, when Sgt. Cody Manuel shot

Manuel has been a police officer for 13 years. In an interview with the  O’Colly  this week, he said police officers

have to deal with people who are “at their worst.” In these “ugly” situations, he said he hopes people listen to facts

rather than their emotions.  

that determination.”  

“It’s easy to say, ‘I don’t feel like this was justified,’” Manuel said. “But it’s harder to look at all the facts and make

Alpert and Manuel said aiming to only wound an individual who is armed, or whom officers perceive to be armed, is

unrealistic; officers must aim for the torso.  

“Shooting in the leg. ... That’s movie stuff,” Alpert said. “If you are in a situation where your life could be at risk,

you’ve got to shoot at the largest target. Shooting the gun out of your hand, that’s TV-Western. That’s not reality.”  

Manuel said officers are trained to use their weapons as a last resort to stop undesired actions, and the torso is

the most effective area, other than the head, to do so. A person’s arms and legs are likely to move, and shooting

moving targets is “incredibly hard.”   

Officers are held accountable for every bullet that leaves their guns, Manuel said.  

“None of us want to shoot an innocent bystander,” Manuel said. “To take the chance of trying to shoot somebody

in the leg and lose that round to go on to God knows where, that’s unacceptable.”  

As for less-lethal technology, such as Tasers, Alpert said their use also depends on the situation. Tasers can be

unreliable, Alpert said, because there are many factors that determine their success, such as whether officers are

close enough to their target or whether the individual is wearing light enough clothing for the prongs to penetrate.  

Alpert said lone officers typically don’t use their Tasers in high-risk situations because if they don’t work, then

“You’re dead.” But in a situation with multiple officers, Alpert said officers often split, one officer presenting non-

lethal force and another officer providing lethal cover.  

“(The Supreme Court of the United States) has said you don’t look at this in 20/20 hindsight, and you don’t,” Alpert

said, referring to the 1989 decision in Graham v. Connor. “You have to look at it as a forward, in-progress, tense,

rapidly evolving situation.”  

As for leaving Dominguez’ body in the road for more than an hour, Alpert said that’s often not the police

department’s decision, as it depends on the availability of the coroner and the investigating agency.  

“You’ve got to understand there are a lot of pushes and pulls,” Alpert said. “But, absolutely, you want to get a body

out of there as soon as possible because it’s insulting to the family.”    

’A rock in a still pond’  

Nationally, law enforcement officers shot and killed about 1,000 people in 2017, according to The  Washington

Post 's database. Of those, about 25 percent were reportedly mentally ill. In Oklahoma, police shot and killed 26

people in 2017, six of whom were reportedly mentally ill. Only one was unarmed.   +6 Kelsy Schlotthauer/O'Colly

Data from The Washington Post's "Fatal Force" database  

Alpert said mental illness adds a level of complexity to situations officers respond to. Officers can be trained in

“Mental Health 101,” but it’s unrealistic to think they could be trained as mental health professionals, Alpert said.  

“We expect so much of our police officers, and now we want to make them mental health providers,” Alpert said.

“We forget what we pay these men and women, you know, and it’s not a lot when we’re asking so much from

them.”  

Mike Brose, chief executive officer of the Mental Health Association of Oklahoma, said the mental health training

available to officers is “still woefully inadequate” compared to other training they receive. In police training

nationally, a “great deal more time” is spent on use of tactics than is spent on soft skills and how to interact with

Brose said the lack of training is unfair to officers who respond to mental health crisis events.  

“They have a difficult job,” Brose said. “It’d be hard for the best mental health professional I know to handle some

people, Brose said.  

of these situations.”  

There might be a solution.      

This year in Tulsa, for two days a week, a community response team will be available to respond to calls for service

that involve people in mental health crises.  

The three-person team is composed of a police officer from the Tulsa Police Department, a firefighter/EMT from

the Tulsa Fire Department and a licensed mental health professional from Family and Children’s Services, a

behavioral healthcare and family services provider in Tulsa.  

“You got the best of both worlds working together as a team,” Brose said.  

The EMT takes care of medical interventions, the police officer ensures the safety of everyone involved and the

mental health professional interacts with the individual, Brose said.   

Brose said the pilot program is modeled after similar teams in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and San Antonio, where

Brose said “amazing” data shows reduction in the use of deadly force. Brose said the Tulsa team is meant to

reduce tension on calls involving people suffering from mental illness, but it can risk only so much when it comes

to safety. +6 Kelsy Schlotthauer/O'Colly Data from The Washington Post's "Fatal Force database  

“When a firearm or weapon comes out, all bets are off,” Brose said. “Law enforcement has a clear and mandated

legal right to protect themselves and the public surrounding them.”  

Brose said he respects officers have to “think fast” and react quickly in certain situations, but police departments

need to encourage healthy assessments of the use of deadly force, especially when they involve people identified

“It’s a rock in a still pond,” Brose said. “And the reverberations are going in every direction for a lifetime, multiple

Subject:

Social networks; Shootings; Criminal investigations; Mental health care; Firearms;

as having a serious mental health issue.  

lifetimes, affecting so many people.”  
 
 
