
 
A black security guard at a bar in the Chicago suburbs was killed by the police as he apparently tried to detain a

man he believed to be involved in a shooting, the authorities said Monday. 

Officers from several police departments had responded to reports of a shooting early Sunday morning at Manny’s

Luxury Lounge in Robbins, Ill., said Sophia Ansari, a spokeswoman for the Cook County Sheriff’s Office. 

Witnesses told the police that a fight had broken out and someone had started shooting. After the authorities

responded, a police officer shot the guard, Jemel Roberson, 26, who had a gun, Ms. Ansari said. Mr. Roberson died

at the hospital. 

Witnesses said that people in the crowd had yelled to arriving police officers that Mr. Roberson, who was wearing

gear that read “Security,” was a guard. Ms. Ansari confirmed that Mr. Roberson worked for the bar. 

“Everybody was screaming out, ‘Security!’,” one witness, Adam Harris, told WGN-TV . “He was a security guard. And

they still did their job, and saw a black man with a gun, and basically killed him.” 

This episode happened as many Republican politicians, including President Trump, have responded to mass

shootings across the United States by calling for more people to protectively carry guns. After a shooting at a

Pittsburgh synagogue left 11 people dead, Mr. Trump suggested that people carrying firearms during services

would have helped. 

Ms. Ansari said that five people were shot during the episode at the bar. The injuries sustained by four of those

people, including the man believed to have initially opened fire, were not life threatening, she said. 

An officer with the Midlothian Police Department shot Mr. Roberson, Ms. Ansari said. The Midlothian police chief,

Dan Delaney, confirmed in a statement that one of his officers had shot a “subject with a gun.” He did not name

the officer. 

unreasonable. 

hospital. 

comment. 

On Monday, Mr. Roberson’s mother, Beatrice Roberson, filed a federal lawsuit against the unnamed police officer

and the village of Midlothian. It alleges that the shooting was unprovoked, unjustified, excessive and

Ms. Ansari said the man who initially opened fire at the bar had not yet been charged. She said he was still at a

The shooting of Mr. Roberson is being investigated by the Illinois State Police, who did not return a call for

Family friends of Mr. Roberson’s said he had worked as an organist at several local churches and had once

dreamed of becoming a police officer himself, according to local news reports . Mr. Roberson had a state firearm

owner’s identification card, Ms. Ansari said, which authorized his possession of firearms. 

Mr. Roberson had planned to play later that day at New Spiritual Light Baptist Church, the pastor, Walter Turner,

“How in the world does the security guard get shot by the police?” Pastor Turner said. “A young man that was

told the local ABC affiliate . 

literally just doing his job, and now he’s gone.” 

Credit: Karen Zraick and Julia Jacobs 
 
 
