New report does little to clear up disputed - Post and Courier, The
(Charleston, SC) - May 2, 2018 - page 006
May 2, 2018 | Post and Courier, The (Charleston, SC) | Andrew Knapp aknapp@postandcourier.com | Page
006

For weeks, Greenville County authorities had withheld a report about deputies’ fatal shooting of a
man gripped by a mental health crisis.

But the document’s release Tuesday shed little light on the authorities’ tactics that have raised
questions among the man’s loved ones.

Jermaine M assey
Jermaine M assey, 35, was shot March 19 during a confrontation with sheriff’s deputies who
responded to a 911 call in which Massey expressed a fear he would commit violence.

“I feel like I’m going to do something stupid,” Massey said during the call. “I feel it in my ... heart. ... I
feel like I’m going to kill my whole family.”

Released by the Greenville County Sheriff’s Office after a request from T he Post and Courier, the
incident report gives no detail on how the deputies handled the situation. In its primary narrative
portion a deputy wrote only “I responded to the incident location.”

T he deputies went to Massey’s Third Avenue home about 5:15 p.m. that day.

Much of the report reflected the phone call in which Massey said his children and fiancee were with
him.

Massey said he “had multiple mental disabilities and was afraid that he would flip out and hurt
someone,” the document added.

His children are heard talking in the background. Massey told them he loved them.

“T he last thing (dispatchers) heard was a small child crying,” the report stated.

Sheriff Will Lewis has told T he Greenville News that responding deputies approached the situation
as a potential hostage crisis. T hey negotiated with Massey for up to 10 minutes and tried less-
than-lethal tactics to bring Massey down before he charged at them behind the home, Lewis has
told the newspaper. He was carrying something that looked like a butcher’s knife, the sheriff said,
prompting the gunfire.

T he Sheriff’s Office has given few other details and had refused to make public the incident report.

Lewis was suspended in April after his indictment on misconduct and obstruction charges amid an
unrelated state investigation into alleged sexual harassment.

T he State Law Enforcement Division also is investigating the shooting.

Massey’s family members have said publicly the deputies’ negotiation methods fell short. T hey
called for increased training on how to approach mentally ill suspects.

T he confrontation consisted of the authorities repeatedly shouting “Drop the knife,” before they
shot him, the family has said after watching police video of the ordeal.

T he Post and Courier has requested access to the footage.

T amika Gordon, a sister of Massey’s, has said her brother did not charge the deputies.

“It was just a step,” Gordon said, according to T he Greenville News.

Lewis has said deputies are trained to keep up their guard during encounters with people wielding
knives. Anybody within 30 feet can quickly close in, he said, and do serious harm.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Post and Courier. All Rights Reserved.

 