Man shot by police was former corrections officer - Honolulu Star-
Advertiser (HI) - June 3, 2018
June 3, 2018 | Honolulu Star-Advertiser (HI) | Leila Fujimori

A 55-year-old Waipahu man shot dead by a Honolulu police officer Friday night was involved in a
more than six-hour standoff with police at the Leolua Regent apartment complex in September.

Renie Cablay was on leave from his job as an adult corrections officer at Oahu Community
Renie Cablay
Correctional Center at the time of the earlier incident, when he was arrested on suspicion of
terroristic threatening for allegedly rushing a neighbor with a machete.

T his time, Cablay was armed with a large knife and lunged twice at a patrol officer before he was
shot in his second-floor apartment, said Honolulu Police Chief Susan Ballard during a news
conference Saturday at police headquarters.

As of press time, police had not released the names of the dead man or the

police officer, but Kevin Cablay, who identified himself as the deceased man's son in a message
posted on Stolen Stuff Hawaii's Facebook page in response to a video post of the shooting, said
his father had "very bad paranoia and a lot of psychological issues within the past two years (that)
he literally cannot control."

"We have tried to get him help over the years but it has been a very difficult journey for him,"
Cablay wrote. "For him, being alive was being miserable and even though I wish it didn't end this
way, I know he's in a better place now. Rest in peace dad … I love you."

T he Honolulu Star-Advertiser was unable to contact Kevin Cablay for further comment Saturday.

Ballard said the patrol officer was responding at 9:10 p.m. Friday to a report of a driver fleeing the
scene of a motor vehicle collision at the Leolua Regent, located at 94-099 Waipahu St., where
Renie Cablay
Renie Cablay owns a unit, according to city property tax records. T he officer identified the
suspect in the collision and located him in a courtyard, she said.

T he officer ordered him to stop but the suspect "continued to walk away before suddenly turning
and lunging toward him while holding a large knife, nearly striking the officer," Ballard said.

T he officer backed away, drew his firearm and ordered the suspect to put the knife down, she said.
Instead, the man fled to his second-floor apartment and refused to come out.

T he officer, fearing that others might be in the apartment, entered the unit, Ballard said. T he man
"again lunged at the officer at close range" and the officer fired three shots, striking the suspect in
the head and chest.

No one else was in the apartment.

Because the circumstances required immediate action and were based on police policies and
procedures, "the officer had a right to go in, fearing for somebody else's safety," Ballard said.

Police said the suspect had no prior convictions but did have numerous temporary restraining
orders against him.

T he police officer involved in the shooting is a

5 1/2-year veteran of the

Honolulu Police Department assigned to the Pearl City district. He was not injured.

T he officer was placed on administrative leave, as is standard procedure in such cases. HPD's
Professional Standards Office is also investigating the shooting.

Honolulu Prosecutor Keith Kaneshiro also was at the Waipahu scene, Ballard said.

Last year the Legislature passed a bill that set up a committee under the Department of the
Attorney General to investigate such incidents. T he panel, however, has not yet convened.

"We want the public to be confident in the fact that our officers are doing the right thing," Ballard
said.

Honolulu police do not yet have body-worn cameras to document their encounters with the public,
although HPD did complete a pilot program.

"We're expecting a rollout around the end of the summer," Ballard said.

"T his is a reminder, too, for the officers and also for the public that sometimes a seemingly
innocent, very routine type of case can turn into a deadly incident," she said. "People think it's just a
routine, day-to-day case. T here are no routine cases for the officers on the road."

Copyrig ht © 2018 Honolulu Star-Advertiser, All rights reserved.

 