Grandview officer shoots, kills 60-year-old man - Kansas City Star, The
(MO) - July 1, 2018
July 1, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Joe Robertson and Ian Cummings, The Kansas City Star

A police officer fatally shot a 60-year-old man armed with two swords who charged at officers
during an incident Sunday afternoon at a Grandview home, according to the Missouri Highway
Patrol.

Larry San Nicolas  was taken to an area hospital where he died later Sunday evening.
Larry San N icolas

T he shooting was reported about 2:40 p.m. at a home on 148th T errace, just east of Interstate
49.

Family members at the home had called 911 and told police that San Nicolas was despondent and
acting irrationally.

When officers arrived, the family members had left the house. San Nicolas emerged from the
house carrying two "samurai-like" swords, according to Sgt. Bill Lowe, a spokesman for the
highway patrol, which was called in to investigate the shooting.

T he officers tried to talk to the man without success and he charged at them, Lowe said. One
Grandview officer fired two non-lethal beanbag rounds at the man. T hey struck him but had no
effect.

T he other officer shot the man with live ammunition.

T he officers gave first aid to San Nicolas, who was still talking when an ambulance took him to a
hospital, Lowe said. But by 7 p.m. the patrol reported he had died.

Grandview police requested that the Missouri Highway Patrol take over the investigation of the
shooting.

T he highway patrol will carry out the investigation to completion, Lowe said.

No police officers were hurt in the incident.

A neighbor, Heather Faudel, said she heard shouting, megaphone commands and then a series of
"pop pop pop pop" sounds.

She also heard family members shouting and saying "Why did you have to shoot him?"

Law enforcement officials continued the investigation.

Sunday's shooting by the Grandview officer came just a little more than two weeks after Kansas
City police shot a woman who police said ran at them with a sword. Ashley Simonetti, 28, died from
her wounds. T he Kansas City Police Department is investigating that shooting.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 