‘Drop the swords!’ Police dashcam video shows - Kansas City Star, The
(MO) - December 7, 2018
December 7, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Glenn E. Rice, The Kansas City Star

Seconds before Grandview police officers fatally shot a 60-year-old man wielding swords who was
having a manic diabetic reaction on July 1, officers hoisting high-powered rifles positioned
themselves behind a parked SUV and ordered the man to drop his weapons.

T hen — as police dashcam video obtained by T he Star reveals — everything happened within
moments.

T he video shows Larry San N icolas
from his house armed with long swords in each hand.

Larry San Nicolas , who lived in the 6000 block of 148th T errace, as he emerged

Several officers repeatedly yelled: “Drop the swords! Drop the swords!”

As beanbags struck San Nicolas, he momentarily staggered sideways, but he did not stop
advancing down the driveway toward the officers.

T he entire time, officers used a blue Jeep Grand Cherokee that blocked the driveway as a barrier.
One of the officers had a rifle with a beanbag propellant device. T he other officer was armed with a
service rifle. Other armed officers positioned themselves near and in front of the house.

T hey opened fire when San Nicolas refused their commands.

Bullets hit San Nicolas in the chest, hand and lower abdomen. He was rushed to a nearby hospital,
where he later died.

T he Missouri Highway Patrol investigated the shooting. Jackson County Prosecutor Jean Peters
Baker determined that the officer’s actions that day were reasonable and declined to file criminal
charges in the shooting.

“Under Missouri law, the officer was not required, under these facts, to allow the civilian to
completely close the distance with the swords or strike an officer with deadly force before
employing his own force,” Peters Baker wrote in a Nov. 19 letter to Grandview Police Chief Larry
Iseman.

No one from the Grandview Police Department was available for an interview on Friday but
released the following statement: “T he quickly unfolding events of July 1 ended tragically. T he
Grandview Police Department requested and fully cooperated with the investigation conducted by
the Missouri State Highway Patrol. While our officers have been cleared of any wrongdoing, we
know this does little to comfort the San Nicolas family and we again offer our sympathies to all
affected.”

Relatives of San Nicolas could not be reached for comment Friday. Relatives have said they were
devastated by the shooting.

Family had called police on July 1 to help calm San Nicolas, who needed insulin. His wife, Jessie San
Nicolas, said the day after the shooting that she wanted police to come with paramedics and help
her husband, who was out of control and brandishing a sword.

Larry and Jessie San Nicolas.jpgLarry San Nicolas and his wife, Jessie San Nicolas

“It all happened so fast,” his wife said. “Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom!”

A relative who witnessed the incident from a house across the street yelled for the officers not to
shoot. Others also captured the incident on video, but this is the first time Grandview police video
has been released.

Larry San Nicolas : What happenedT he wife of the 60-year-old man killed by

Fatal shooting of Larry San N icolas
Grandview police spoke out with family at her side, questioning why police used lethal force to bring
him down as he held a sword, suffering from a manic diabetic insulin episode.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 