


Police: Barricaded suspect died of gunshot wounds - Hawaii Tribune-
Herald (Hilo, HI) - December 5, 2018
December 5, 2018 | Hawaii Tribune-Herald (Hilo, HI)

An autopsy found 42-year-old Bert M ercado
officers during a barricade situation in Hawaiian Beaches, died of gunshot wounds, not of self-
inflicted knife wounds, police said T uesday.

B ert Mercado , who died Nov. 27 after being shot by police

Copyrig ht © 2018 Hawaii Tribune-Herald, All rights reserved.

 
Man that died during standoff had criminal history - Hawaii Tribune-
Herald (Hilo, HI) - November 29, 2018
November 29, 2018 | Hawaii Tribune-Herald (Hilo, HI) | JOHN BURNETT Hawaii Tribune-Herald

A 42-year-old Hawaiian Beaches man shot and apparently killed by police in a standoff T uesday
evening had a lengthy history in the criminal justice system, according to court records.

At the time of the shooting, Bert Emilio Mercado Jr. was on two years probation for violating a
temporary restraining order, records indicate.

According to his Facebook page, Mercado is originally from Kahului, Maui, and his involvement in
the adult criminal justice system started on the Valley Isle in 1994.

Mercado was sentenced in 2008 on the Big Island to five years in prison for second-degree theft,
second-degree assault and two counts of first-degree terroristic threatening, all Class C felonies.
Court records also indicate three convictions for domestic abuse and numerous contempt of court
convictions.

Court records also indicate a history of psychological problems and chemical dependency, with a
stint in Habilitat long-term addiction treatment center on Oahu and court-ordered Domestic
Violence Intervention and Alternatives to Violence program classes.

According to police, officers responded to a Kahakai Boulevard home in Hawaiian Beaches after
receiving a report of a 42-year-old man who had stabbed himself with a knife. Police say Mercado
was armed with a rifle when officers arrived.

Officers ordered Mercado to drop the rifle, police say, but he then pointed the weapon at the
officers, who responded by firing their own service weapons. Police say Mercado then retreated
indoors, and officers responded by establishing a safety perimeter and evacuating nearby
residents.

At that point, according to police, the incident was treated as a barricaded subject with a firearm.
T he Special Response Team - the department's SWAT  unit -was called to the scene, and a crisis
negotiator attempted, unsuccessfully, to establish communication with Mercado.

Officers entered the home at about 7 p.m., police say, and discovered Mercado inside, dead. T he
rifle and a knife were found, according to Hawaii Police Department spokesman Alan Richmond.
He said he didn't know if the rifle was loaded.

An autopsy has been ordered for Friday.

"I don't know if it was the stab wound or gunshots," that caused Mercado death's, Richmond said.
"We'll probably find out on Friday."

Asked if the incident was suicide-by-cop, Richmond replied, "I don't know at this time."

No other occupants were in the house, and no one else was injured.

Police say four officers discharged their firearms, but it's not yet known how many bullets hit
Mercado. T he officers' individual law enforcement experience range from less than a year to 13
years.

Police have opened terroristic threatening and unattended death investigations regarding
Mercado.

As is standard practice in police-involved shootings, both criminal and administrative investigations
have been opened into the shooting. T he Hilo Criminal Investigations Section will conduct the
criminal investigation, and the Office of Professional Standards, the department's internal affairs
unit, will perform the administrative investigation.

T he officers who discharged their weapons have been placed on paid administrative leave pending
the outcome of those investigations, Richmond said.

Mercado is the third individual shot and killed by Big Island police this year.

Justin Joshua Waiki, a 33-year-old fugitive who shot and killed Puna Patrol Officer Bronson Kaliloa,
died in a shootout with officers July 20 at South Point, ending an islandwide manhunt. Police Sgt.
Bryan T ina, a SRT  member, was shot and injured in the gun battle, as was a woman in a vehicle
with Waiki.

And Ashley Elisna Grammer, a 26-year-old Hilo woman, was shot and killed by officers Oct. 12 at
Honolulu Landing near Hawaiian Beaches. Police say Grammer used a stolen Toyota 4-Runner to
repeatedly ram a police vehicle, and was endangering the lives of two officers. Three officers
discharged their weapons, police said.

Witnesses to Tuesday's incident or those with pertinent information are asked to call the police
nonemergency line at 935-3311 or contact Detective Jesse Kerr at 961-2379 or
jesse.kerr@hawaiicounty.gov.

T hose who prefer anonymity may call Crime Stoppers at 961-8300 and may be eligible for a reward
of up to $1,000.

Email John Burnett at jburnett@hawaiitribune-herald.com.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Hawaii Tribune-Herald, All rights reserved.

 
Police identify man killed in officer-involved - Honolulu Star-Advertiser
(HI) - November 28, 2018
November 28, 2018 | Honolulu Star-Advertiser (HI) | Star-Advertiser staff

Police have identified the man killed in the officer-involved shooting that occurred Tuesday as 42-
year-old Bert E. M ercado
determine the exact cause of his death.

B ert E. Mercado  of Hawaiian Beaches. An autopsy has been scheduled for Friday to

On T uesday, police said they received a report of a man who had stabbed himself with a knife.
When they arrived on scene, they were confronted with a man next to a rifle. Officers ordered the
man to drop the rifle when he took hold of it. When he pointed the rifle at the officers, police fired
their weapons at the man before he retreated into the residence and out of sight.

Police then set up a safety perimeter around the home and evacuated nearby residents as they
waited for a special response team to arrive. A crisis negotiator attempted to establish
communication with the man but was unsuccessful in doing so.

At about 7 p.m., team members entered the home and discovered the man dead. T here was no
one else inside at the time.

Police said there were four officers who fired their weapons. However, it is unknown at this time
how many bullets struck the man.

A terroristic threatening investigation has been initiated, as well as an unattended death
investigation. A criminal and administrative investigation are also underway into the circumstances
surrounding the fatal shooting.

Police ask anyone who may have witnessed this incident or has information about it to call the non-
emergency line at 935-3311 or contact Detective Jesse Kerr at 961-2379 or
jesse.kerr@hawaiicounty.gov.

T ipsters who prefer to remain anonymous may call the islandwide Crime Stoppers number at 961-
8300 and may be eligible for a reward of up to $1,000.00. Crime Stoppers is a volunteer program
run by ordinary citizens who want to keep their community safe. Crime Stoppers does not record
calls or subscribe to any Caller ID service. All Crime Stoppers information is kept confidential.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Honolulu Star-Advertiser, All rights reserved.

 
Police ID man killed in officer-involved shooting - Hawaii Tribune-
Herald (Hilo, HI) - November 28, 2018
November 28, 2018 | Hawaii Tribune-Herald (Hilo, HI)

Police have identified the man shot and killed in the officer-involved shooting that occurred
T uesday evening as 42-year-old Bert E. M ercado

B ert E. Mercado  of Hawaiian Beaches.

An autopsy has been scheduled for Friday to determine the exact cause of his death.

Witnesses to the incident or those with information are asked to call the police non-emergency line
at 935-3311 or contact Detective Jesse Kerr at 961-2379 or jesse.kerr@hawaiicounty.gov.

T hose who prefer anonymity may call Crime Stoppers at 961-8300 and may be eligible for a reward
of up to $1,000.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Hawaii Tribune-Herald, All rights reserved.

 
Man shot by police Tuesday had multiple felonies - West Hawaii Today
(Kailua-Kona, HI) - November 29, 2018
November 29, 2018 | West Hawaii Today (Kailua-Kona, HI) | JOHN BURNETT Hawaii Tribune-Herald

HILO - A 42-year-old Hawaiian Beaches man shot and apparently killed by police in a standoff
T uesday evening had a lengthy history in the criminal justice system, according to court records.

At the time of the shooting, Bert Emilio Mercado Jr. was on two years probation for violating a
temporary restraining order, records indicate.

According to his Facebook page, Mercado is originally from Kahului, Maui, and his involvement in
the adult criminal justice system started on the Valley Isle in 1994.

Mercado was sentenced in 2008 on the Big Island to five years in prison for second-degree theft,
second-degree assault and two counts of first-degree terroristic threatening, all Class C felonies.
Court records also indicate three convictions for domestic abuse and numerous contempt of court
convictions.

Court records also indicate a history of psychological problems and chemical dependency, with a
stint in Habilitat long-term addiction treatment center on Oahu and court-ordered Domestic
Violence Intervention and Alternatives to Violence program classes.

According to police, officers responded to a Kahakai Boulevard home in Hawaiian Beaches after
receiving a report of a 42-year-old man who had stabbed himself with a knife. Police say Mercado
was armed with a rifle when officers arrived.

Officers ordered Mercado to drop the rifle, police say, but he then pointed the weapon at the
officers, who responded by firing their own service weapons. Police say Mercado then retreated
indoors, and officers responded by establishing a safety perimeter and evacuating nearby
residents.

At that point, according to police, the incident was treated as a barricaded subject with a firearm.
T he Special Response Team - the department's SWAT  unit -was called to the scene, and a crisis
negotiator attempted, unsuccessfully, to establish communication with Mercado.

Officers entered the home at about 7 p.m., police say, and discovered Mercado inside, dead. T he
rifle and a knife were found, according to Hawaii Police Department spokesman Alan Richmond.
He said he didn't know if the rifle was loaded.

An autopsy has been ordered for Friday.

"I don't know if it was the stab wound or gunshots," that caused Mercado death, Richmond said.
"We'll probably find out on Friday."

Asked if the incident was suicide-by-cop, Richmond replied, "I don't know at this time."

No other occupants were in the house, and no one else was injured.

Police say four officers discharged their firearms, but it's not yet known how many bullets hit
Mercado. T he officers' individual law enforcement experience range from less than a year to 13
years.

Police have opened terroristic threatening and unattended death investigations regarding
Mercado.

As is standard practice in police-involved shootings, both criminal and administrative investigations
have been opened into the shooting. T he Hilo Criminal Investigations Section will conduct the
criminal investigation, and the Office of Professional Standards, the department's internal affairs
unit, will perform the administrative investigation.

T he officers who discharged their weapons have been placed on paid administrative leave pending
the outcome of those investigations, Richmond said.

Mercado is the third individual shot and killed by Big Island police this year.

Justin Joshua Waiki, a 33-year-old fugitive who shot and killed Puna Patrol Officer Bronson Kaliloa,
died in a shootout with officers July 20 at South Point, ending an islandwide manhunt. Police Sgt.
Bryan T ina, a SRT  member, was shot and injured in the gun battle, as was a woman in a vehicle
with Waiki.

And Ashley Elisna Grammer, a 26-year-old Hilo woman, was shot and killed by officers Oct. 12 at
Honolulu Landing near Hawaiian Beaches. Police say Grammer used a stolen Toyota 4-Runner to
repeatedly ram a police vehicle, and was endangering the lives of two officers. Three officers
discharged their weapons, police said.

Witnesses to Tuesday's incident or those with pertinent information are asked to call the police
nonemergency line at 935-3311 or contact Detective Jesse Kerr at 961-2379 or
jesse.kerr@hawaiicounty.gov.

T hose who prefer anonymity may call Crime Stoppers at 961-8300 and may be eligible for a reward
up to $1,000.

Email John Burnett at jburnett@hawaiitribune-herald.com.

Copyrig ht © 2018 West Hawaii Today, All rights reserved.

 


No charges filed in fatal shooting by police - Associated Press State
Wire: Michigan (MI) - February 5, 2019
February 5, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Michigan (MI)

MOUNT  CLEMENS, Mich. (AP) — No charges are being filed in the fatal shooting of a 25-year-old
man by a suburban Detroit police officer.

T he Macomb County sheriff's office in Mount Clemens says Tuesday that its investigation into
Kanwarbir M alhi's Nov. 3 death was submitted to prosecutors who did not authorize charges.
Kanwarbir M alhi

Shelby Township officers found Malhi in his mother's car which had been reported stolen.

T he sheriff's office says in a release that Malhi told officers he had a gun and refused commands
to show his hands. T he sheriff's office adds that Malhi was shot once after "making movements"
toward his "jacket pocket." No gun was found.

Investigators interviewed witnesses and reviewed police dash cam footage of the incident.

T oxicology results showed cocaine, morphine and buprenorphine in Malhi's system.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
Officer fatally shoots man amid stolen vehicle - Associated Press State
Wire: Michigan (MI) - November 5, 2018
November 5, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Michigan (MI)

SHELBY T OWNSHIP, Mich. (AP) — Authorities say a police officer is on administrative leave after
fatally shooting a man during an investigation into a stolen vehicle in suburban Detroit.

T he shooting happened early Saturday in Macomb County's Shelby T ownship. Police say the man
was in the vehicle at an apartment complex and refused to comply with officers' commands. A
police statement says he told officers he was armed and one of the officers fired to "to stop his
aggressive action."

T he man was taken to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead. T he Macomb County sheriff's
office on Monday identified him as 25-year-old Kanwarbir M alhi

Kanwarbir Malhi of Shelby T ownship.

T he sheriff's office is investigating the circumstances of the shooting.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
No charges will be filed against a Shelby Township police officer who fatally shot a man in November in an

apartment complex parking lot, the Macomb County Sheriff's Office said Tuesday. 

The sheriff's office investigated the Nov. 3 death of Kanwarbir Malhi, 25, of the township. The county prosecutor's

office reviewed the case, and no charges were authorized, the sheriff's office said. 

Township police responded to a residence at Spring Hill Apartments on Spring Lane on Nov.2 for a complaint of

unauthorized driving away of an automobile. Police said the complainant said her son, Malhi, stole her 2005 Honda

from the residence. She said he did not have a valid driver's license and was using illegal narcotics, police said. 

They said another family member indicated Malhi had stated that if police were called, he "would not be taken alive

and made mention of suicide by cop," according to the sheriff's office release. 

A township police officer on patrol saw the stolen vehicle in the apartment complex about midnight. Malhi was

driving and parked the vehicle within the complex. 

Several township police officers responded and gave verbal commands to Malhi, who was not compliant with the

officers' verbal commands and said he was armed with a gun, the sheriff's office said. 

It said he continued not to comply with the officers' commands, abruptly got out of the vehicle and made

movements toward his jacket pocket. A township officer, who was not named in the release, fired one round from

his department-issued shotgun, hitting Malhi, the sheriff's office said. 

It said officers immediately gave aid to Malhi, who was taken to Troy Beaumont Hospital and pronounced dead at

1:45 a.m. 

Seven township officers were on the scene when Malhi was shot, the sheriff's office said. It reports that Malhi said

he had a gun and was given numerous verbal commands to show officers his hands. He didn't, the sheriff's office

said, and he made several movements that were consistent with reaching for a weapon. 

No gun was found on Malhi or in his vehicle, according to the sheriff's office. 

The office said the incident, from the time township officers arrived to the time Malhi was shot, lasted about 10

minutes. Dash camera footage and audio was reviewed and witnesses were interviewed, according to the release. 

It stated that an autopsy by the Oakland County Medical Examiner's Office showed that Malhi died of a single

gunshot wound and he was found to have cocaine, morphine and buprenorphine in his system. Buprenorphine is

used to treat opioid (narcotic) dependence or addiction, according to the Mayo Clinic website. 

The officer who fired the shot was placed on administrative leave after the incident. 

Township Police Chief Robert Shelide said after the shooting that four officers encountered Malhi, but he refused

to listen to verbal commands and told them he was armed. 

"There were furtive hand gestures made along with verbal statement, and that's what led our officer into firing his

weapon," he said in November. "Our officers (are) out there protecting our community, but they also have to protect

themselves." 

another department. 

Shelide said, at that time, that the incident was a family matter that became a tragic situation. He added that the

officer who shot Malhi had been on the police force for 17 years "with an exemplary record." 

Shelide said he's aware that prior to this incident, Malhi has had multiple contacts with police officers —but with

Contact Christina Hall: chall@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter: @challreporter. 

Staff writer Aleanna Siacon contributed to this report. 

CREDIT: Christina Hall 
 
 


 
"Nobody wants to do this. This is 

the last thing that our officers 

want to do." 

Robert J. Shelide 

Shelby Twp. Police Chief 

DETROIT –A man fatally shot by a Shelby Township police officer in an apartment complex parking lot on Saturday

has been identified by the Macomb County Sheriff's Office. 

According to Shelby Township police, officers were investigating a stolen vehicle at the Spring Hill Apartments on

Spring Lane at 1 a.m. 

The vehicle was occupied by a man, now identified as Kanwarbir Malhi, 25, of Shelby Township. 

He "refused to comply with officers repetitive verbal commands and informed officers that he was armed," a news

release from the police department said. 

The officer then fired his weapon to "to stop his aggressive action." Police said Malhi sustained "a single gunshot

wound," was treated on the scene by officers and members of the Shelby Township Fire Department, then taken to

Troy Beaumont Hospital. 

Malhi died due to his injuries, and the officer who fired the shot has been placed on administrative leave. 

The ongoing investigation has been turned over to the Macomb County Sheriff's Office. 

At a press conference on Monday, Shelby Twp. Police Chief Robert J. Shelide clarified details of the incident. He

said police were contacted by Malhi's parents, who said their son stole their vehicle on Friday. On Saturday, he

said, Malhi was spotted by officers on patrol in the apartment complex parking lot. 

Shelide said four officers encountered Malhi, but he refused to listen to their verbal commands and told them he

"There were furtive hand gestures made along with verbal statement, and that's what lead our officer into firing his

weapon," Shelide said. "Our officers (are) out there protecting our community, but they also have to protect

was armed. 

themselves." 

Shelide said the incident was a family matter that became a tragic situation. He added that the officer who shot

Malhi has been on Shelby Police force for 17 years, "with an exemplary record." 

"Nobody wants to do this," Shelide said. "This is the last thing that our officers want to do." 

Shelide said he's aware that prior to this incident, Malhi has had multiple contacts with police officers —but with

another department. Dash cam footage of the incident was also recorded. 

The sheriff's office will be taking everything into consideration in their investigation, Shelide said. 

This marked the second fatal shooting by a police officer in Macomb County in two days. 

The Macomb County Sheriff's Office has identified the man who was shot and killed Sunday in an exchange with

St. Clair Shores police outside a banquet hall as a 29-year-old Detroiter. 

A police dog named Axe also died in the line of duty during the incident. 

Officers were responding to calls of an armed man outside the Lakeland Manor on Harper Avenue between 10 and

11 Mile roads, where about 70 people were gathered inside, police said. 

The man, now identified as Theoddeus Gray, was standing outside armed with a rifle and handgun, ignored

demands from officers and attempted to flee on foot, police said. 

Axe, the department's K-9, was deployed and then reportedly shot by Gray with a handgun. Then, officers returned

fire and struck the suspect, who was taken to a hospital and pronounced dead. 

The Sheriff's Office is heading the investigation but has not shared further details about the incident or a possible

motive. 

Omar Abdel-Baqui also contributed to this report. 

"Nobody wants to do this. This is 

the last thing that our officers 

want to do." 

Robert J. Shelide 

Shelby Twp. Police Chief 

CREDIT: Aleanna Siacon 
 
 

Suspect killed by Shelby Twp. police during - Detroit News, The (MI) -
November 6, 2018 - page B1
November 6, 2018 | Detroit News, The (MI) | James David Dickson | Page B1

Shelby Township – T he Macomb County Sheriff's Office said Monday a man shot and killed by a
Kanwarbir M alhi, 25, of Shelby T ownship.
Shelby Township police officer has been identified as Kanwarbir M alhi

Malhi had stolen his parents vehicle, and he was pulled over by police, officials said.

An officer spotted the 2005 Honda and Malhi at about 1 a.m. Saturday at Spring Hill Apartments,
said Shelby Township Police Chief Robert Shelide at a news conference Monday at the station.

Shelide said the incident was captured from "four different angles" via dash cam; none of that
footage was aired Monday. T he Macomb County Sheriff's Office, which has taken over the
investigation, could not immediately be reached.

Officers said they issued verbal commands to Malhi, which Shelide said were ignored. T hen,
without being told by police, he allegedly exited the Honda.

His "furtive movements," along with telling the police he had a weapon, were followed by a single
gunshot from a 17-year veteran of the force. Malhi was transported to Troy Beaumont Hospital,
where he died.

"In my experience, when someone tells you who they are, and what they're about, you listen," said
Shelide. "It's a dark parking lot, in the middle of the night."

T he officer who fired the fatal shot is on leave and will be until the investigation is complete.

Deputy Chief Mark Coil said: "It's a tragic situation."

In an ideal situation, he said, the suspect would have complied with police demands, been taken
peacefully into custody and given any help he needed.

When pulled over by police, Coil said, "it's not the time to disobey commands."

T he officer on leave is "doing as well as he can be, under the circumstances," Shelide said.

No weapon was immediately recovered from Malhi, but Shelide was careful not to say that there
was no gun.

T he case had been turned over to the sheriff's office before police could search the Honda, he
said.

jdickson@detroitnews.com

(c) 2018, The Detroit News. All rights reserved.

 
Shelby Township officer involved in fatal shooting - Shelby-Utica News
(MI) - November 5, 2018
November 5, 2018 | Shelby-Utica News (MI) | Kara Szymanski

SHELBY T OWNSHIP— A Shelby Township police officer was involved in a fatal shooting that took
place at an apartment complex in Shelby Township Nov. 3.

T he incident occurred at 1 a.m. at Spring Hill Apartments, located at 45710 Spring Lane in Shelby
T ownship, which is near Ryan and West Utica roads.

According to the Shelby Township Police Department, on Nov. 1, a family from Spring Hill
Apartments called police and reported that their son was missing and that they were concerned
about him. T he department reportedly located the family's son Nov. 2. On Nov. 3, the family
reported to police that their son had stolen their 2005 Honda Civic, according to Shelby T ownship
police.

"A patrol car that was parked in the parking lot saw the Honda Civic that looked like the stolen
vehicle drive by and ran the plate, called for backup and did a felony stop, and tried to get him (the
suspect) to comply. He refused; he came out of the car and announced he was armed and made
gestures, and they (the police) fired and struck him and immediately rendered aid. He was
transported to Troy Beaumont Hospital, where he was pronounced deceased by a doctor at the
hospital," Shelby Township Police Chief Robert Shelide said in a phone interview.

T he suspect who was shot was identified by the Macomb County Sheriff's Office as Kanwarbir
Kanwarbir
M alhiM alhi, 25, of Shelby T ownship. He was shot one time, according to Shelby Township police.

Regarding whether Malhi was armed, Shelide said no weapon was located after the shooting.

According to the Shelby Township Police Department, the patrol officers' vehicles have dashcam
video from four different angles that captured the incident.

T he investigation has been turned over to the Macomb County Sheriff's Office, and the officer
involved has been placed on administrative leave.

"I thought it was imperative to have another department take over, and it is standard protocol for
this type of situation. It is very imperative that we keep in mind and have deep sympathy for the
deceased and the family, and the officer involved," said Shelide.

T he suspect had just moved to Shelby Township about four to six months ago and had multiple
contacts with police in Sterling Heights, according to Shelide.

T he officer involved is highly decorated and has 14 years with the department, Shelide said.

"I would say it's a tragic event, and it's unfortunate that this individual wouldn't comply, and if he
had, he would have been taken into custody peacefully and we would have gotten him the help he
needed," said Shelby Township Deputy Police Chief Mark Coil.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Shelby-Utica News (MI), All Rights Reserved.

 

No charges over police shooting of sword-wielding - Associated Press
State Wire: Missouri (MO) - November 30, 2018
November 30, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Missouri (MO)

GRANDVIEW, Mo. (AP) — No charges will be filed over the deadly police shooting of a sword-
wielding suburban Kansas City man.

Larry
T he Kansas City Star reports that prosecutors found that the officer who killed 60-year-old Larry
San N icolas
San Nicolas  acted out of reasonable fear. T he shooting happened in July after police in Grandview
received a 911 call. San Nicolas was suffering a manic diabetic reaction, and his family wanted him
subdued so he could get medical assistance.

But authorities say San Nicolas ignored the officers' commands to stay back and kept walking
toward them with two large swords, even after being hit with bean-bag rounds. T he officer who
fatally shot San Nicolas can be heard muttering, "God please, no, no, no," before opening fire.

His wife, Jessie San Nicolas, described the shooting as "a nightmare."

___

Information from: T he Kansas City Star, http://www.kcstar.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Grandview officer shoots, kills 60-year-old man - Kansas City Star, The
(MO) - July 1, 2018
July 1, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Joe Robertson and Ian Cummings, The Kansas City Star

A police officer fatally shot a 60-year-old man armed with two swords who charged at officers
during an incident Sunday afternoon at a Grandview home, according to the Missouri Highway
Patrol.

Larry San Nicolas  was taken to an area hospital where he died later Sunday evening.
Larry San N icolas

T he shooting was reported about 2:40 p.m. at a home on 148th T errace, just east of Interstate
49.

Family members at the home had called 911 and told police that San Nicolas was despondent and
acting irrationally.

When officers arrived, the family members had left the house. San Nicolas emerged from the
house carrying two "samurai-like" swords, according to Sgt. Bill Lowe, a spokesman for the
highway patrol, which was called in to investigate the shooting.

T he officers tried to talk to the man without success and he charged at them, Lowe said. One
Grandview officer fired two non-lethal beanbag rounds at the man. T hey struck him but had no
effect.

T he other officer shot the man with live ammunition.

T he officers gave first aid to San Nicolas, who was still talking when an ambulance took him to a
hospital, Lowe said. But by 7 p.m. the patrol reported he had died.

Grandview police requested that the Missouri Highway Patrol take over the investigation of the
shooting.

T he highway patrol will carry out the investigation to completion, Lowe said.

No police officers were hurt in the incident.

A neighbor, Heather Faudel, said she heard shouting, megaphone commands and then a series of
"pop pop pop pop" sounds.

She also heard family members shouting and saying "Why did you have to shoot him?"

Law enforcement officials continued the investigation.

Sunday's shooting by the Grandview officer came just a little more than two weeks after Kansas
City police shot a woman who police said ran at them with a sword. Ashley Simonetti, 28, died from
her wounds. T he Kansas City Police Department is investigating that shooting.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 
Grandview man dies after altercation with police - Jackson County
Advocate (Grandview, MO) - July 5, 2018 - page A1
July 5, 2018 | Jackson County Advocate (Grandview, MO) | Mary Wilson | Page A1

Larry San Nicolas , 60, was a father, a grandfather and a friend to many neighbors in the
Larry San N icolas
Belvidere community of Grandview. However, tragedy struck on the afternoon of Sunday, July 1,
when San Nicolas began acting irrationally and violently, causing his family to seek the help of the
Grandview Police Department.

According to Sgt. Bill Lowe with the Missouri State Highway Patrol, MSHP was called onto the
scene at 148th Terrace and Bellaire Avenue in Grandview on reports of an officer-involved
shooting shortly after 3 p.m. on Sunday.

“At about 2:40, the Grandview Police Department was notified of a disturbance at a residence off
of 148th Terrace here in Grandview,” said Lowe. “It involved a male individual that was acting
despondent as well as some irra-tional behavior. At that point in time, they notified their officers
and they responded to the residence.”

When police arrived on scene, according to Lowe, every member of the family had exited the
residence and was across the street. T he officers attempted to speak to San Nicolas, who came
out of the residence carrying two samurai-type swords.

“T hey attempted several verbal commands for him to stop and to put the swords down, and he
failed to do so,” said Lowe. “At that point in time, one of the Grandview police officers fired two
less-lethal rounds of bean bags. Both those bean bags struck the individual and did not have an
effect.”

Lowe said that San Nicolas continued to rush toward the officers in a threatening manner. A
second officer on scene responded by firing rounds toward the individual in order to stop the
threat. Once no longer a threat, the officers rendered aid until an ambulance was on scene.

San Nicolas was transported to a local hospital where he later died from the injuries sustained. No
officer was injured in the altercation.

“Obviously, emotionally it’s a trying time (for the officers),” said Lowe. “T hey responded heroically
as well as compassionately in order to attempt to save this individual’s life. Anytime something like
this happens to a citizen, it is tragic. T he family was worried enough that they called 911.”

Lowe added that the investigation is still ongoing into what transpired. It was unclear how many
times San Nicolas was shot by the officer, and officers were unsure if something medically was
wrong with him.

T he investigation was handed over to MSHP due to the officer-involved shooting, which is typical in

order for neutrality on both sides.

Copyrig ht 2018, Jackson County Advocate, All Rights Reserved.

 
No charges in Grandview police shooting of 60-year - Kansas City Star,
The (MO) - November 29, 2018
November 29, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Joe Robertson, The Kansas City Star

T he Grandview police officer who opened fire on a 60-year-old man wielding swords during a manic
diabetic reaction acted out of reasonable fear and will not be charged, Jackson County Prosecutor
Jean Peters Baker has decided.

No criminal charges will be filed, Baker announced, against the officer or others at the scene of the
July 1 shooting of Larry San N icolas
street.

Larry San Nicolas , which family members watched in horror from across the

“While the officer’s actions resulted in the loss of life of a loving husband and father who was in
need of service, the evidence does not support the filing of criminal charges against either officer
who acted within the limits contained in the law,” Baker said.

She provided her findings in a letter dated Nov. 19 to Grandview Police Chief Charles Iseman,
detailing the events of that Sunday afternoon and the actions — and fears — of the officers.

“God please no, no, no,” the officer said right before he fired the five shots that killed San Nicolas.

T he gunfire came 19 seconds after San Nicolas came out of a side door of his house, heading
down the driveway with two swords over his head, as Grandview officers were still hurrying into
positions.

Family members, who had called police to come help calm San Nicolas out of a manic state, had
gathered across the street. Some of his grandchildren were watching from inside.

“Why did you have to shoot him?!” San Nicolas’ wife, Jessie San Nicolas screamed when the gunfire
erupted.

His family, the day after the shooting, reacted with sadness and anger, not believing that lethal
force was necessary to stop a man with swords who was still on the other side of an SUV that
stood between him and the officers when he was shot.

T hey had called 911 thinking the police would be able to subdue him safely and allow for
emergency medical assistance.

“T his is a nightmare,” Jessie San Nicolas said.

In making the decision against filing criminal charges, Peters Baker said she relied on multiple dash
cam videos and interviews with officers on the scene.

T wo pairs of officers were poised behind the cover of vehicles — the SUV blocking the driveway
and a police vehicle several feet away.

T he front pair had one officer with a rifle and another with a shotgun that fires non-lethal hard
beanbags.

Video recorded the shouted commands:

Larry, let me see your hands.

Larry, let me see both your hands.

Larry, both hands in the air.

Drop the swords. Drop the swords.

After about 15 seconds the officer with the beanbag shotgun fired, and the rounds struck San
Nicolas in the abdomen area. Video taken on a phone by a neighbor across the street shows that
San Nicolas staggered only for a moment, but continued walking down the driveway toward the
officers.

Beanbag shots — heavy nylon wraps the size of baby socks, filled with lead birdshot — are
designed to compel the target to let go of any weapons and stop.

T he video shows, and the officers described, San Nicolas’ approach as deliberate. Not running. But
a steady, forward walk.

T he officer who fired the beanbags described the rapidly developing dilemma.

“(San Nicolas) buckled and flinched and was right back up,” he said. “He was right back in the fight
… I tried to make space trying to figure out what our next engagement would be.”

T hen the second officer fired the lethal rounds.

T he use of a Taser was not an option, police said, because San Nicolas was moving too quickly and
was too close.

T he SUV still provided a barrier, Peters Baker noted, but the swords San Nicolas had over his head
were 39 inches long, and “while the vehicle added additional time by which the civilian had to travel
around it, he was certainly capable of doing so.”

State law and court interpretations recognize that police are making split-second judgments, she
wrote.

Evidence demonstrated that San Nicolas was armed with deadly weapons, she said, had failed to
comply with multiple commands and was behaving with “an intent to engage in combative
behavior.”

T he SUV stood between them, but “the officer was not legally required … to allow the civilian to
completely close the distance with the swords or strike an officer with deadly force before
employing his own force,” Peters Baker wrote.

San Nicolas’ death was devastating to his family and to neighbors who mourned the loss of a
friend who was often outside under his driveway canopy, eager to cook extra food for others.

A day after the shooting, Jessie San Nicolas said it pained her that she could not run to him where
he lay mortally wounded, because the area was cordoned off by the police.

He would die that night in a hospital.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 
‘Drop the swords!’ Police dashcam video shows - Kansas City Star, The
(MO) - December 7, 2018
December 7, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Glenn E. Rice, The Kansas City Star

Seconds before Grandview police officers fatally shot a 60-year-old man wielding swords who was
having a manic diabetic reaction on July 1, officers hoisting high-powered rifles positioned
themselves behind a parked SUV and ordered the man to drop his weapons.

T hen — as police dashcam video obtained by T he Star reveals — everything happened within
moments.

T he video shows Larry San N icolas
from his house armed with long swords in each hand.

Larry San Nicolas , who lived in the 6000 block of 148th T errace, as he emerged

Several officers repeatedly yelled: “Drop the swords! Drop the swords!”

As beanbags struck San Nicolas, he momentarily staggered sideways, but he did not stop
advancing down the driveway toward the officers.

T he entire time, officers used a blue Jeep Grand Cherokee that blocked the driveway as a barrier.
One of the officers had a rifle with a beanbag propellant device. T he other officer was armed with a
service rifle. Other armed officers positioned themselves near and in front of the house.

T hey opened fire when San Nicolas refused their commands.

Bullets hit San Nicolas in the chest, hand and lower abdomen. He was rushed to a nearby hospital,
where he later died.

T he Missouri Highway Patrol investigated the shooting. Jackson County Prosecutor Jean Peters
Baker determined that the officer’s actions that day were reasonable and declined to file criminal
charges in the shooting.

“Under Missouri law, the officer was not required, under these facts, to allow the civilian to
completely close the distance with the swords or strike an officer with deadly force before
employing his own force,” Peters Baker wrote in a Nov. 19 letter to Grandview Police Chief Larry
Iseman.

No one from the Grandview Police Department was available for an interview on Friday but
released the following statement: “T he quickly unfolding events of July 1 ended tragically. T he
Grandview Police Department requested and fully cooperated with the investigation conducted by
the Missouri State Highway Patrol. While our officers have been cleared of any wrongdoing, we
know this does little to comfort the San Nicolas family and we again offer our sympathies to all
affected.”

Relatives of San Nicolas could not be reached for comment Friday. Relatives have said they were
devastated by the shooting.

Family had called police on July 1 to help calm San Nicolas, who needed insulin. His wife, Jessie San
Nicolas, said the day after the shooting that she wanted police to come with paramedics and help
her husband, who was out of control and brandishing a sword.

Larry and Jessie San Nicolas.jpgLarry San Nicolas and his wife, Jessie San Nicolas

“It all happened so fast,” his wife said. “Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom!”

A relative who witnessed the incident from a house across the street yelled for the officers not to
shoot. Others also captured the incident on video, but this is the first time Grandview police video
has been released.

Larry San Nicolas : What happenedT he wife of the 60-year-old man killed by

Fatal shooting of Larry San N icolas
Grandview police spoke out with family at her side, questioning why police used lethal force to bring
him down as he held a sword, suffering from a manic diabetic insulin episode.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 
Dashcam video offers better picture of Grandview - Kansas City Star,
The (MO) - July 5, 2018
July 5, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Lynn Horsley, The Kansas City Star

T he son of a man who was fatally wounded by Grandview police said Wednesday that a short video
shows the victim wasn't posing a lethal threat to officers when he was shot.

But the Missouri Highway Patrol said Thursday that a more complete dashcam video exists of the
incident, taken from a patrol car at the scene. T hat video has not been publicly released. T he patrol
is investigating the shooting.

Frank Arceo is the oldest son of Larry San N icolas
he brandished a sword outside his home in the 6000 block of 148th T errace.

Larry San Nicolas , who was shot by Grandview police Sunday as

Arceo said Wednesday that the video taken by a neighbor across the street shows San Nicolas was
not posing a lethal threat to the police officers.

T he Grandview police referred calls about the incident and the video to the Highway Patrol.

On T hursday, Sgt. Bill Lowe of the Highway Patrol said someone had sent him a link to the short
video and he was aware of it. But he said it doesn't provide a complete picture of incident, and a
more complete video was taken by the dashcam of a patrol car at the scene.

T hat dashcam video is part of the patrol's investigation of the incident, and is not yet available to
the public. T he patrol's investigation is expected to take two to three more weeks, as officers
study autopsy results and review witness statements and other information, Lowe said.

T he results of the investigation will then be turned over to the Jackson County prosecutor's office
for a determination on whether any charges should be filed.

Arceo and his family have questioned why the Grandview police needed to shoot his father.

"His arms were up the whole time," Arceo said of the incident. "He was not threatening the
officers. T here was distance between him and the officers, and they were behind cover."

San Nicolas, 60, was diabetic and having a manic reaction because he needed insulin, his family
said. His wife, Jessie San Nicolas, wanted police to come with paramedics and help him, as they had
done over a year ago when she called 911 for assistance.

But when officers arrived about 2:40 p.m. Sunday, Larry San N icolas
Larry San Nicolas  came out the side door of
the house and down the driveway with a sword over his head. Two officers stood poised behind a
Jeep Grand Cherokee parked across the driveway. Other officers were stationed behind a
Grandview police vehicle about 20 yards to the east.

An officer behind the police vehicle fired beanbag shots to try to stop San Nicolas, witnesses said,
but he continued to advance. T hen an officer behind the Jeep fired several live rounds. San Nicolas
died Sunday night at a hospital.

Arceo lives across the street and had tried to run to his father's house to keep him inside, but
officers holding the family back wouldn't let him intervene with his father. Arceo said Wednesday
the family wanted the neighbor's video released so people could see what happened.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 
Did Grandview police use their crisis training - Kansas City Star, The
(MO) - July 3, 2018
July 3, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | The Kansas City Star Editorial Board, The Kansas City Star

Grandview police can proudly report that 100 percent of the department's 50-some officers have
received the specialized Crisis Intervention Team (CIT ) training that helps law enforcement
understand the mentally ill. But what’s not clear is if the department followed that guidance Sunday
when a Grandview officer shot and killed Larry San N icolas

Larry San Nicolas  outside his home.

Family members, including grandchildren, watched in horror as the officer fatally shot the 60-year-
old husband, father and grandfather. His loved ones were held back as San Nicolas bled on the
pavement.

San Nicolas had come out of the house brandishing a sword. Reports suggest that police used a
megaphone as they tried to communicate with him. But shouted commands, a norm in policing,
can agitate a mentally ill person, potentially raising tensions and escalating a situation until officers
are forced to fire their weapons in self-defense.

San Nicolas was a diabetic, his wife said, and he was having a medical reaction to a lack of insulin.
Insulin shock is not a rare condition. It’s something that officers can understand and be prepared
for encountering.

T he Missouri Highway Patrol is investigating the shooting death and will need time to report its
findings. Investigators should consider whether the officer’s training in CIT  was adhered to — or
not — and why.

New research shows that mandating that an entire police force complete the 40-hour CIT
program isn’t considered a best practice. Developing a core group of highly specialized officers
who are well-trained to deal with the mentally ill is preferred.

Grandview, though, has a relatively small police department. And It's commendable that every
officer has completed this important training program. But the question is whether the
department failed to develop a core team of officers with a higher level of expertise and contacts
in the mental health community. Where were those officers on Sunday?

T he Kansas City area has long been a leader in such training. T he International CIT  Conference will
convene here in mid-August. But there is growing concern that by mandating training,
departments inadvertently dilute the impact. Not every officer is the best fit for the SWAT  squad.
And not every officer is well-suited to develop an expertise in handling mental health issues.

Kansas City’s new police chief has expanded the specialized CIT  squad to five officers. In
November, the Kansas City Police Department is rolling out an 18-hour mental health training
program. All officers will receive that baseline training, and the department will maintain its core

specialized team. T he department is also developing CIT  programming for mental illness in youth
and the elderly.

A hard truth is that mental illness is widespread across our cities and neighborhoods. T raining that
prepares police for these emergency situations is crucial.

Otherwise, the haunting words of San Nicolas' wife will be repeated again and again by other
grieving families: "Why did you have to shoot him?"

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 
'Why did you have to shoot him?' cries wife of man - Kansas City Star,
The (MO) - July 2, 2018
July 2, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Joe Robertson and Robert A. Cronkleton, The Kansas City Star

Moments before Grandview police opened fire on Larry San N icolas
watching across the street.

Larry San Nicolas , terror swept over his family

T his was supposed to be a medical call, his wife, Jessie San Nicolas, cried Monday, the day after.

Her 60-year-old diabetic husband was having a manic reaction because he needed insulin. He was
out of control, brandishing a sword, and she wanted police to come with paramedics and help him
they way they had done over a year ago when she called 911 for help.

But this time, about 2:40 p.m. Sunday in the 6000 block of 148th T errace, the family saw police
officers leveling rifles. Jessie San Nicolas had told the dispatcher her husband had a sword. No
firearms.

His oldest son, Frank Arceo, who lives across the street, tried to run back to his father's house to
keep him inside. T he array of police armor and artillery terrified him. But officers holding the family
back wouldn't let him.

Larry San N icolas
Larry San Nicolas  came out the side door and down the driveway, the sword over his head. T wo
officers stood poised behind Jeep Grand Cherokee parked across the front of the driveway. Other
officers were stationed behind a Grandview police vehicle some 20 yards to the east.

T he adults didn't realize it, but Larry San N icolas
in Arceo's home.

Larry San Nicolas ' grandchildren were watching from the window

First an officer behind the police vehicle fired beanbag shots to try to stop San Nicolas, witnesses
said. T hen an officer behind the Jeep fired several live rounds.

"It all happened so fast," his wife said, weeping. "Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom!"

And she heard herself screaming, "Why did you have to shoot him?"

She tried to run to her husband, but the officers held her back. It was all unfolding in front of her
and her grandchildren, and none could go to his aid.

Neighbors across the street saw the shooting, watching a man they said they have known and
loved for years.

T hey saw Jessie San Nicolas, unable to get to her husband. T hey saw the officer who fired his rifle,
breaking down and crying before other officers took him away.

"I yelled, 'Hey stop! What are you doing?'" said Jose Luis Solis, who saw the shooting with his
brother, Juan Carlos Solis.

Larry and Jessie San Nicolas.jpegLarry San Nicolas and his wife, Jessie San Nicolas

T he Missouri Highway Patrol is investigating the shooting of San Nicolas, who died Sunday night at
the hospital.

"No police officer wants this to happen," said Highway Patrol Sgt. Bill Lowe. Lethal force, he said,
"is the last resort of any officer. T hey did what they could to help this individual, but he would have
nothing of it. He continued to move aggressively toward them."

"I understand the family is searching for answers," Lowe continued. "Especially the way it unfolded
in front of them."

T he hardest part, Jessie San Nicolas said, was not being able to comfort her husband as he lay
bleeding. She was never able to speak to him before he died.

"Why couldn't they let me have that moment?" she said. "Why couldn't I say, 'I love you, Dad, hang
in there, hang in . . . We all love you'?"

T he investigation will take several weeks, Lowe said, as investigators study autopsy results and
review witness statements.

T he family doesn't understand how a man with a sword, with an SUV between him and the officers,
presented a lethal threat.

"T his is a nightmare," Jessie San Nicolas said.

In a statement Monday, Grandview Police Chief Charles Iseman described the more than 600
hours of training Grandview officers receive, including medical first-responder training.

T he department also sends all of its officers to the 40-hour Crisis Intervention Team — CIT  —
training on how to respond to people experiencing a mental health crisis, he said.

Both Jose and Juan Solis said it appeared to them that San Nicolas was receiving little medical
attention from officers. T hey believe an ambulance did not arrive until some 20 minutes after the
shooting.

T he witnesses also raised questions about non-lethal alternatives police could have tried to subdue
San Nicolas.

T he highway patrol reported that one Grandview officer fired beanbag rounds from a shotgun. San
Nicolas was hit but continued to move toward the officers. Witnesses said that officer was
stationed behind a police SUV some 15 to 20 yards from the driveway.

T he lethal rounds from the officer closest to San Nicolas immediately followed, fired from across
the hood of the Jeep Grand Cherokee in the driveway. One round fired into the hood of the Jeep.

Bean bag rounds are intended to inflict enough pain to make a person give up, said Ed Obayashi, a
Plumas County, Calif., sheriff's deputy and police force expert. But someone in mental distress
might persist through that pain, he said.

T he shotgun fires a miniature fabric bag that typically contains lead shot, he said. T he gun is color-
coded so officers know it is not a lethal weapon.

If fired at about 30 feet, the beanbag would hit at the speed of a major league fastball, Obayashi
said.

"Going that fast, it's going to knock the wind out of you," he said. But where someone is in severe
mental distress or under the influence of alcohol or drugs, "it's not unusual where beanbags and
T asers are ineffective against such individuals."

Mark Cable, a neighbor who has known San Nicolas and his family since Cable moved onto the
block in 2002, mourned the loss of a man he said made instant friends of everyone.

San Nicolas loved to grill, and he shared his Mexican dishes, and hamburgers and hot dogs.

"T hey (the Nicolases) always had dinner" offered to their neighbors, he said. "It was that kind of
family."

Jose Solis had just seen San Nicolas the morning of the day he was shot. He was in his familiar
place, sitting in the shade of the canopy set up at the top of his driveway, with his stereo.

"He waved and shouted, 'Hi Jose!'" Solis said, the way he always did.

Now he can't get the sight out of his mind, of the shooting, of officers standing around San
Nicolas where he fell with the wounds that would kill him.

T he San Nicolases' church, Coronation of Our Lady Catholic Church in Grandview, held a Mass for
the family Monday morning, to pray and gather courage, family said.

T he pastor called on the parish to press for answers to their questions and to raise up San Nicolas'
life and death to help protect other families in the future from deadly engagements with police,
Jessie San Nicolas said.

"He said we want to fix this so his death is not in vain," she said. "We can save other people."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 

Troopers: Man shot by officer advanced with - Associated Press State
Wire: Alaska (AK) - July 9, 2018
July 9, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Alaska (AK)

ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) — Alaska State Troopers say the man shot and killed last week by an
officer was carrying a container of flammable liquid.

T roopers Monday released additional details in the death of 38-year-old Eric H ash
Copper Center.

Eric H ash at a home in

Hash died early Friday morning after he was shot by Trooper Kamau Leigh, a six-year veteran
stationed in Glennallen.

T roopers shortly after 2:30 a.m. received a report that Hash was assaulting a 72-year-old family
member.

T roopers say their preliminary investigation indicates that when Leigh arrived at the home, Hash
advance toward the trooper and his nearby patrol car while holding a container of "incapacitating,
flammable liquid in his hand."

Leigh fired, mortally wounding Hash.

Hash died at a hospital.

T he Alaska Bureau of Investigation is investigating the use of deadly force.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Domestic violence suspect killed in state trooper - Associated Press
State Wire: Alaska (AK) - July 6, 2018
July 6, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Alaska (AK)

ANCHORAGE, Alaska (AP) — A Copper Center man died after he was shot by at least one Alaska
State T rooper.

T he Department of Public Safety did not immediately release how many troopers were involved or
how many responded to the home in the Richardson Highway community of 300.

T roopers shortly after 2:30 a.m. Friday received a report that 38-year-old Eric H ash
assaulting a 72-year-old family member and placing other family members in fear.

Eric H ash was

T roopers received a second report that Hash had left and returned.

Family members barricaded themselves inside and reported Hash was yelling at them and
damaging property.

At least one officer responded to the home. Hash was shot at about 3:15 a.m.

He was medically evacuated but he died at a hospital.

T he state medical examiner will conduct an autopsy.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Family questions fatal shooting of Copper Center - Anchorage Daily
News (AK) - July 6, 2018
July 6, 2018 | Anchorage Daily News (AK) | Alex DeMarban Devin Kelly | news

A Copper Center man died early Friday after one or more Alaska state troopers shot him while
investigating a domestic-violence call.

Eric H ash, 38, was shot at about 3:15 a.m., according to a troopers alert.
Eric H ash

T he Department of Public Safety has not said how many troopers fired at Hash, whether he had a
weapon or threatened troopers, or specifically what led to the shooting.

Meanwhile, members of Hash's family harshly criticized the trooper response. T hey said Hash was
unarmed and was not being violent. A Public Safety Department spokesman said more information
about the shooting would be released Monday.

T roopers said they received a report at 2:34 a.m. that Hash was assaulting a 72-year-old relative
and frightening other family members in the Richardson Highway community about 12 miles south
of Glennallen.

"While (AST ) was en route to the incident, it was reported that Hash had left but then returned to
the residence and family members barricaded themselves for safety as Hash was yelling at them
and damaging property," the statement said. "AST  responded and made contact with Hash."

T roopers then fired on Hash, the statement said. "Hash was medevaced but succumbed to his
injuries at the hospital," the troopers statement said.

Carlene Pete, Hash's sister, provided a statement Friday night from the family.

It said Hash was close to family but recently started drinking heavily after two brothers and a niece
died.

T he statement said he smelled of alcohol during the assault and was uncharacteristically
belligerent. But he didn't hit anyone, it said.

Neighbors said it was a short time between a trooper's arrival and the shooting, the statement
said.

"T hey feel like the time between arrival and the shots fired was so close that the trooper did not
put forth adequate effort to deescalate the situation before killing Eric," the family said.

"As a family we are not excusing Eric's behavior last night, but none of his behavior justified being
shot to death," the family said.

T he family said it hopes to review footage from officer body cameras.

Jonathon T aylor, a spokesman with the Department of Public Safety, said the agency doesn't
provide troopers with body cameras.

T aylor said the Alaska Bureau of Investigations, the major investigative branch of the Department
of Public Safety, will conduct a thorough review. Results will be forwarded to the Office of Special
Prosecutions in the Department of Law.

T he office will determine whether the trooper, or troopers, were justified in discharging their
weapons, he said.

A precise timeline, and what happened moment-by-moment, will be established as part of the
investigation, he said.

"We won't rush the investigation by any means. We take it very, very seriously," he said.

Hash's body will be transported to the Alaska medical examiner's office for an autopsy, troopers
said Friday morning.

T he trooper or troopers who fired their weapons were placed on a mandatory 72-hour
administrative leave.

Megan Peters, a spokeswoman with the troopers, declined to answer questions about the incident
Friday, including how many times Hash was shot and how many troopers were placed on leave. In
later interviews, Public Safety and troopers spokesman Taylor also declined to specifically address
the version of events provided by Hash's family, saying the investigation was still underway.

T he incident is the fourth trooper-involved shooting this year, Peters said. It was the second such
shooting in a week, after a North Pole man, Garry Lawrence Jr. was shot and killed Friday after
threatening troopers with an axe.

A man was killed in each of the four shootings.

[ Daylong Pilot Stations standoff ends with man dead.]

[ Troopers fatally shoot Nikolaevsk man.]

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Anchorag e Daily News

 
Copper Center man fatally shot by trooper wielded - Anchorage Daily
News (AK) - July 9, 2018
July 9, 2018 | Anchorage Daily News (AK) | Zaz Hollander | news

A Glennallen-based trooper shot and killed a Copper Center resident Friday as the man advanced
with a container of "incapacitating, flammable liquid in his hand," according to Alaska State
T roopers.

But troopers declined to say just what the liquid was, or why the trooper involved in the shooting
decided it was dangerous enough to merit firing his weapon.

Eric H ash
Eric H ash was fatally shot by an Alaska state trooper Friday, July 6, 2018. (Photo provided by Hash
family)

Eric H ash, 38, died early Friday
Eric H ash

T he Alaska Department of Public Safety on Monday identified the trooper who shot Hash as six-
year veteran Kamau Leigh, the update says. A spokesman said Leigh started working at the
Glennallen post in December.

Members of Hash's family have criticized the trooper response. T hey said Hash was unarmed and
was not being violent.

[ Family questions fatal shooting of Copper Center man by troopers]

A family friend said the shooting took place at the McKinley Apartment Building, a 10-unit complex
where the family lived.

Hash was shot around 3:15 a.m. after troopers say they received a report that he was assaulting a
72-year-old relative and frightening others.

Five people – two adults and three children – were in the apartment when Leigh got there, troopers
say.

A previous troopers statement said Hash left the residence in the Richardson Highway community
about 12 miles south of Glennallen but then returned. Some family members locked themselves
into a room as he yelled and damaged property.

T he update issued Monday morning added new details about what troopers say happened next:

Leigh arrived just before 3:15 a.m. to find Hash holding the unidentified liquid and advancing, the
update said. He moved toward the trooper "in close proximity to his service vehicle" before Leigh
fired.

He was taken to a hospital but died there.

T roopers provided no further details about the flammable liquid Monday.

"Preliminary investigation determined the fluid was flammable," Department of Public
Safety spokesman Jonathon Taylor said in an email. "Ongoing investigation will determine what the
contents specifically were."

It's unclear whether Leigh issued any warnings before he fired his weapon, Taylor said.

Nash's family members and friends say he was distraught over the recent deaths of relatives and
had started drinking heavily. He smelled of alcohol during Friday's incident but didn't hit anyone, the
family said.

T aylor disputed that.

"T he caller who dialed 911 to report the initial incident indicated to dispatchers that Hash had hit at
least 1 person, was verbally assaulting others, and was damaging property and breaking windows
at the residence," he wrote. "T he occupants feared for their safety, and had barricaded themselves
in a back room."

Samuel Johns, 32, grew up in one of the apartments in the same complex.

Johns said he'd known Hash since the 1990s and described him as a community-minded person
who worked at the Red Dog mine for a time and sometimes fronted firewood for people who
couldn't afford it right away.

Hash was acting out of character Friday morning, Johns said, because of the alcohol he drank.

T he trooper overreacted, Johns said. "He did not deserve to die that way."

Family members also contend the trooper didn't provide first aid or allow relatives to pray with
Hash.

T aylor said "preliminary investigation" indicates Leigh attempted first aid shortly after the shooting
occurred.

Leigh was one of four troopers who, with a Fairbanks police lieutenant, shot and killed a suspect in
a Fairbanks pursuit in 2015.

T he Alaska Bureau of Investigation is investigating the shooting. T he Office of Special
Prosecutions will review the incident and make a determination as to the justification for the
discharging of the service weapon, the Department of Public Safety says.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Anchorag e Daily News

 

POLICE IDENTIFY MAN WHO DIED IN CONFRONTATION WITH - East
Bay Times (CA) - April 13, 2018 - page 5B
April 13, 2018 | East Bay Times (CA) | George Kelly and Joseph Geha, Staff writers | Page 5B

FREMONT  >> Authorities named a Hayward man Wednesday as the person who died in last week's
confrontation with officers.

T he Alameda County Sheriff's Office named Nathaniel Prasad
for felony warrants for illegal possession of a firearm and probation violation when undercover
officers found him around 6:45 p.m. April 5 in a vehicle traveling northbound on Fremont
Boulevard.

N athaniel Prasad, 18, as the man sought by police

When officers tried to stop the vehicle, its driver complied and pulled over at Fremont Boulevard
and Nicolet Avenue, but Prasad got out and ran toward a nearby gas station, police said.

Multiple police officers responded to the scene and fired at Prasad after he pointed a firearm in
their direction and fired it at least once, police said.

Officers responded after Prasad fell, providing emergency care until Fremont fire department
paramedics arrived, but he was pronounced dead at the scene. A revolver and expended casings
were found at his side, police said.

Fremont police and the Alameda County district attorney's office are conducting separate and
parallel investigations into the shooting.

Contact George Kelly at 510-208-6488 and Joseph Geha at 408-707-1292.

Copyrig ht © 2018 East Bay Times.

 
FAMILY OF 18-YEAR-OLD KILLED BY POLICE DISPUTES - Daily Review,
The (Hayward, CA) - April 20, 2018 - page 10A
April 20, 2018 | Daily Review, The (Hayward, CA) | Joseph Geha, jgeha@bayareanewsgroup.com | Page 10A

Family and friends of 18-year-old Nathaniel Prasad
Fremont police officers last week, held a vigil in his honor Thursday near the intersection where he
died.

N athaniel Prasad of Hayward, who was fatally shot by seven

T hey said they don't believe the police version that Prasad pointed a gun at officers after running
from a traffic stop at Fremont Boulevard and Nicolet Avenue the evening of April 12.

Police said Prasad fired at officers, noting three expended shell casings were found in a gun next to
Prasad's body.

Along with civil rights lawyer John Burris, the family called for transparency from authorities.

"We keep seeing what's written about him and it does not seem to fit how he was," said Prasad's
father, Danny Prasad. He noted his son had graduated high school through independent study and
was "waiting for his gown" while looking at colleges.

"T he police, they're saying, ‘T hese are the type of people we need to take off the streets,' and all
those other hurtful comments," Danny Prasad said. "He was just a scared little kid."

Prasad's cousin Ryan Lal, 17, of Hayward, said police should release all of the video they have of
the incident.

"When the evidence is released that shows where he had a gun, and he actually pointed it on the
body cams, then I'll believe it," he said.

Janna Juarez, 16, of Fremont, said she had been dating Prasad the past year and a half and news of
his death was her "worst nightmare."

"I never thought anything like this would happen," Juarez said, adding she's mad at everybody
involved, including Prasad.

"I'm mad that he ran, that he just didn't cooperate," she said.

Juarez said she hopes the vigil will show that Prasad was a "normal person" and that he was loved.

"He had friends, he had family, he had people to support him, who cared about him. He was not
nothing, he was something to people."

Prasad's mother, Evelyn, was driving with her son in the car when they were pulled over by police

near Nicolet Drive last week, Danny Prasad said.

T hough she kept her hands on the wheel and didn't move from the car after pulling over, Danny
Prasad said police later shot a bullet through the windshield, just missing her.

Burris, who said he has been retained by the family, sued the city of Fremont and the police
department over the fatal shooting of 16-year-old Elena Mondragon in Hayward last year.

He said in the "interest of transparency and accountability," police should release all video they
have of the last week's shooting to the public, or at least to the family.

"T hey're in a lot of pain, a lot of anguish. Stories are being told about their son that they don't
believe are true. And they have real questions about how their son was shot down," Burris said.

"I don't think a family should have to suffer. If there's evidence that indicates what happened, the
family ought to be able to see that so that they have some certainty about what happened to him
on that day," he said.

"I don't know that there's illegal conduct or not, I don't know that," Burris said. "But I do want to
know what happened, and I want to help the family understand and appreciate what happened."

Contact Joseph Geha at 408-707-1292.

(c) 2018 The Daily Review. All rights reserved. Reproduced with the permission of Media NewsGroup, Inc. by NewsBank, Inc.

 
Teen Shot Dead After Armed Confrontation With - Desi Talk (New York,
NY) - April 27, 2018 - page 6
April 27, 2018 | Desi Talk (New York, NY) | Page 6

18-year old Indian-American from Hayward, California, was fatally shot April 5, by police who were
chasing him because of an earlier police record.

According to an April 19, press release from the Fremont Police Department, on April 5, Fremont
police officers attempted to arrest wanted suspect Nathaniel Prasad
felony firearms possession warrant, a felony probation warrant and a misdemeanor evading arrest
warrant for fleeing from a Fremont School Resource Officer on March 22.

N athaniel Prasad who was wanted on a

T he incident took place April 5, evening, at 6:47 p.m., when the Fremont Police Department's
Street Crimes Unit identified Prasad as a passenger in a vehicle that was being driven by his mother
in the area of Central Ave and Fremont Blvd. T he officers broadcast information over the police
radio about the vehicle and the active warrants and requested marked patrol units to assist with a
traffic stop.

T wo patrol officers responded to the call and stopped the vehicle. Prasad fled from right
passenger side of the car on foot and was given chase. Prasad pulled a firearm from his waist area
and it appears that he fired one to two shots in the direction of the officer, the press release says.
T he officer drew his duty weapon, returned fire and broadcast over the police radio that the
suspect had a gun. T he interaction was captured on video surveillance and was corroborated by
statements of the involved officer and witnesses at the scene, the press release said.

More police officers gathered at the scene, including a police K9 unit. Prasad ran toward the
officers before veering and running south on Fremont Blvd into the oncoming lanes of traffic, the
press release says. T he K9 was deployed as they began to chase Prasad. Three officers from the
Street Crimes Unit and an additional patrol officer also exited their vehicles and began to pursue
Prasad on foot. During the time the six officers were giving chase, Prasad reportedly pulled a gun
from his waist area, pointed it in the direction of the officers and it appears he fired at least one
round, and police say this interaction is corroborated by the statements of the involved officers,
statements of witnesses, the body worn camera footage and in-car camera footage of the event.
In response, the officers shot in the direction of Prasad, striking him several times, causing him to
fall. On the ground, Prasad still had the weapon in his hand and officers fired additional rounds.
Fremont Fire paramedics arrived, took over medical care, and announced Prasad was deceased
shortly the incident. No officers were injured during the incident.

T he firearm in Prasad's possession was a.22 caliber revolver. When officers examined the weapon
at the scene, it had three spent casings and three empty cylinders. A records check revealed it was
reported stolen, the press release said.

T he Fremont Crimes Against Persons Unit and the Alameda County District Attorney's Office are

independently investigating this incident.

According to the Chapel of the T imes, based in Hayward, California, Prasad was born December
19, 1999. the memorial to Prasad says he died "with his mom as a witness," in Fremont, California.
T he memorial service was scheduled to be held April 14. His leaves behind his father Daniel, and
mother Evelyn, and brother Dylan Prasad.

His biography on the funeral website says Prasad had a "goofy personality", was an Honor Roll
student with perfect attendance.

Copyrig ht, 2018, News India-Times / Desi Talk, All Rights Reserved.

 
Indian-American teen shot dead after armed - News India-Times (New
York, NY) - April 20, 2018
April 20, 2018 | News India-Times (New York, NY) | Staff Writer

An 18-year old Indian-American from Hayward, California, was fatally shot April 5, by police who
were chasing him because of an earlier police record.

According to an April 19, press release from the Fremont Police Department, on April 5, Fremont
police officers attempted to arrest wanted suspect Nathaniel Prasad
felony firearms possession warrant, a felony probation warrant and a misdemeanor evading arrest
warrant for fleeing from a Fremont School Resource Officer on March 22.

N athaniel Prasad who was wanted on a

T he incident took place April 5, evening, at 6:47 p.m., when the Fremont Police Department's
Street Crimes Unit identified Prasad as a passenger in a vehicle that was being driven by his mother
in the area of Central Ave and Fremont Blvd. T he officers broadcast information over the police
radio about the vehicle and the active warrants and requested marked patrol units to assist with a
traffic stop.

T wo patrol officers responded to the call and stopped the vehicle. Prasad fled from right
passenger side of the car on foot and was given chase. Prasad pulled a firearm from his waist area
and it appears that he fired one to two shots in the direction of the officer, the press release says.
T he officer drew his duty weapon, returned fire and broadcast over the police radio that the
suspect had a gun. T he interaction was captured on video surveillance and was corroborated by
statements of the involved officer and witnesses at the scene, the press release said.

More police officers gathered at the scene, including a police K9 unit. Prasad ran toward the
officers before veering and running south on Fremont Blvd into the oncoming lanes of traffic, the
press release says. T he K9 was deployed as they began to chase Prasad. Three officers from the
Street Crimes Unit and an additional patrol officer also exited their vehicles and began to pursue
Prasad on foot.

During the time the six officers were giving chase, Prasad reportedly pulled a gun from his waist
area, pointed it in the direction of the officers and it appears he fired at least one round, and police
say this interaction is corroborated by the statements of the involved officers, statements of
witnesses, the body worn camera footage and in-car camera footage of the event. In response,
the officers shot in the direction of Prasad, striking him several times, causing him to fall. On the
ground, Prasad still had the weapon in his hand and officers fired additional rounds.

Fremont Fire paramedics arrived, took over medical care, and announced Prasad was deceased
shortly the incident. No officers were injured during the incident.

T he firearm in Prasad's possession was a .22 caliber revolver. When officers examined the weapon
at the scene, it had three spent casings and three empty cylinders. A records check revealed it was

reported stolen, the press release said.

T he Fremont Crimes Against Persons Unit and the Alameda County District Attorney's Office are
independently investigating this incident.

According to the Chapel of the T imes, based in Hayward, California, Prasad was born December
19, 1999. the memorial to Prasad says he died "with his mom as a witness," in Fremont, California.
T he memorial service was scheduled to be held April 14. His leaves behind his father Daniel, and
mother Evelyn, and brother Dylan Prasad.

His biography on the funeral website says Prasad had a "goofy personality", was an Honor Roll
student with perfect attendance. He was diagnosed with an eye condition, Keratoconus, and had
lost all vision on his left eye, and informed he had a good chance of losing the sight of his right eye
as well. He loved to sing and write, and was on the school football and basketball teams.

Copyrig ht, 2018, News India-Times / Desi Talk, All Rights Reserved.

 

One person dead after ofﬁcer involved shooting in Waipahu

7/27/2019

87°

NEWS

One person dead after o cer involved shooting in Waipahu

by: Manolo Morales

Posted: Jun 2, 2018 / 08:08 AM HST / Updated: Jun 5, 2018 / 05:51 PM HST

What started out as a hit and run escalated into a police shooting that left a Waipahu man

dead inside his apartment.

before he  red his weapon.

Honolulu Police say 55-year-old Renie Cablay lunged at a police of cer twice with a knife

https://www.khon2.com/news/one-person-dead-after-ofﬁcer-involved-shooting-in-waipahu/

1/8

7/27/2019

One person dead after ofﬁcer involved shooting in Waipahu

Witnesses say Cablay actually taunted the of cer to shoot him, and that of cers have been
87°
called in to that same apartment before.

HPD says the of cer  red three shots inside the apartment on Waipahu Street after

Cablay threatened the of cer with a serrated knife and ran inside. 

The medical examiner say Cablay suffered wounds to neck and torso.

It was scary, it was shocking. I had the kids too and making sure that everybody was okay,”

said Darrick Rondolos, who lives in the same apartment complex.

Police say the of cer was sent to the address because the man was believed to be a suspect

in a hit and run.

Witnesses say police initially caught up with the suspect in the hallway outside the

apartment. When the of cer told him to stop he took out a knife, faced the of cer, and kept

walking backwards. He made his way to his second  oor apartment where locked himself in.

“The of cer backed away and drew his  rearm and ordered the man to put the knife down.

The man refused and  ed to his second  oor apartment and refused to exit his apartment,”

said HPD Chief Susan Ballard.

“The man kept backing up and kept saying shoot me, shoot me, kill me, kill me, and he

backed all the way up to his apartment,” said Carol Gersaba, who lives in the apartment

complex.

the door open.

Police say they didn’t know if anybody else was in the apartment, so they decided to break

“Fearing that others may have been in the apartment, of cers entered the apartment and the

male again lunged at the of cer at close range. The of cer discharged his  rearm three

times, fatally striking the male,” said Chief Ballard.

“They told him drop the knife, but I guess he lunged at them,” said Reed Gersaba, who lives in

the apartment complex.

“Did you actually see him lunge at the of cer?” KHON2 asked.

“Yeah he pushed the knife and they shot him,” said Reed.

https://www.khon2.com/news/one-person-dead-after-ofﬁcer-involved-shooting-in-waipahu/

2/8

7/27/2019

One person dead after ofﬁcer involved shooting in Waipahu

Police say the suspect was in the apartment by himself.
87°

Sources tell us Cablay had been an adult corrections of cer at OCCC for several years. 

Neighbors say police of cers have been called to the apartment before.

In September last year, a man barricaded himself in the apartment in a standoff that lasted

for several hours. Neighbors say the man had threatened someone with a machete. 

As for Friday night’s incident, HPD says it appears the of cer did everything by the book.

“The of cer, as far as policies and procedures, had the right to go in because fearing for

somebody else’s safety inside the apartment. We didn’t want anything to happen if there was

somebody else inside there,” said Chief Ballard.

“De nitely they did what they were supposed to do. I feel that it’s a good thing that it

happened inside than outside where we all were. It could have been much worse,” said Carol

Gersaba.

The prosecutor’s of ce and the state attorney general will also be reviewing the case.

HPD says the of cer has been with the department for  ve and a half years and has been put

on administrative leave, which is standard procedure.

Copyright 2019 Nexstar Broadcasting, Inc. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.

SHARE THIS STORY

MORE NEWS STORIES

https://www.khon2.com/news/one-person-dead-after-ofﬁcer-involved-shooting-in-waipahu/

3/8

 
Man shot after trying to attack officer with knife - Honolulu Star-
Advertiser (HI) - June 2, 2018
June 2, 2018 | Honolulu Star-Advertiser (HI) | Leila Fujimori

A 55-year-old Waipahu man shot dead by a Honolulu police officer Friday night was involved in a
more than six-hour standoff with police at the Leolua Regent apartment complex in September.

Renie Cablay was on leave from his job as an adult corrections officer at Oahu Community
Renie Cablay
Correctional Center at the time of the earlier incident, when he was arrested on suspicion of
terroristic threatening for allegedly rushing a neighbor with a machete.

T his time, Cablay was armed with a large knife and lunged twice at a patrol officer before he was
shot in his second-floor apartment, said Honolulu Police Chief Susan Ballard during a news
conference Saturday at police headquarters.

As of press time, police had not released the names of the dead man or the police officer, but
Kevin Cablay, who identified himself as Cablay's son in a message posted on Stolen Stuff Hawaii's
Facebook page in response to a video post of the shooting, said his father had "very bad paranoia
and a lot of psychological issues within the past two years and he literally cannot control."

"We have tried to get him help over the years but it has been a very difficult journey for him,"
Cablay wrote. "For him, being alive was being miserable and even though I wish it didn't end this
way, I know he's in a better place now. Rest in peace dad … I love you."

T he Honolulu Star-Advertiser was unable to contact Kevin Cablay for further comment Saturday.

Ballard said the patrol officer was responding at 9:10 p.m. Friday to a report of a driver fleeing the
scene of a motor vehicle collision at the Leolua Regent, located at 94-099 Waipahu St., where
Renie Cablay owns a unit, according to city property tax records. T he officer identified the
Renie Cablay
suspect in the collision and located him in a courtyard, she said.

T he officer ordered him to stop but the suspect "continued to walk away before suddenly turning
and lunging toward him while holding a large knife, nearly striking the officer," Ballard said.

T he officer backed away, drew his firearm and ordered the suspect to put the knife down, she said.
Instead, the man fled to his second-floor apartment and refused to come out.

T he officer, fearing that others might be in the apartment, entered the unit, Ballard said. T he man
"again lunged at the officer at close range" and the officer fired three shots, striking the suspect in
his head and chest.

No one else was in the apartment.

Because the circumstances required immediate action and were based on police policies and
procedures, "the officer had a right to go in, fearing for somebody else's safety," Ballard said.

Police said the suspect had no convictions but did have numerous temporary restraining orders
against him.

T he police officer involved in the shooting is a 5 1/2-year veteran of the Honolulu Police
Department assigned to the Pearl City district. He was not injured.

T he officer was placed on administrative leave, as is standard procedure in such cases. HPD's
Professional Standards Office is also investigating the shooting.

Honolulu Prosecutor Keith Kaneshiro also was at the Waipahu scene, Ballard said.

Last year the Legislature passed a bill that set up a committee under the Department of the
Attorney General to investigate such incidents. T he panel, however, has not yet convened.

"We want the public to be confident in the fact that our officers are doing the right thing," Ballard
said.

Honolulu police do not yet have body-worn cameras to document their encounters with the public,
although HPD did complete a pilot program.

"We're expecting a rollout around the end of the summer," Ballard said.

"T his is a reminder, too, for the officers and also for the public that sometimes a seemingly
innocent, very routine type of case can turn into a deadly incident," she said. "People think it's just a
routine, day-to-day case. T here are no routine cases for the officers on the road."

Copyrig ht © 2018 Honolulu Star-Advertiser, All rights reserved.

 
Man shot by police was former corrections officer - Honolulu Star-
Advertiser (HI) - June 3, 2018
June 3, 2018 | Honolulu Star-Advertiser (HI) | Leila Fujimori

A 55-year-old Waipahu man shot dead by a Honolulu police officer Friday night was involved in a
more than six-hour standoff with police at the Leolua Regent apartment complex in September.

Renie Cablay was on leave from his job as an adult corrections officer at Oahu Community
Renie Cablay
Correctional Center at the time of the earlier incident, when he was arrested on suspicion of
terroristic threatening for allegedly rushing a neighbor with a machete.

T his time, Cablay was armed with a large knife and lunged twice at a patrol officer before he was
shot in his second-floor apartment, said Honolulu Police Chief Susan Ballard during a news
conference Saturday at police headquarters.

As of press time, police had not released the names of the dead man or the

police officer, but Kevin Cablay, who identified himself as the deceased man's son in a message
posted on Stolen Stuff Hawaii's Facebook page in response to a video post of the shooting, said
his father had "very bad paranoia and a lot of psychological issues within the past two years (that)
he literally cannot control."

"We have tried to get him help over the years but it has been a very difficult journey for him,"
Cablay wrote. "For him, being alive was being miserable and even though I wish it didn't end this
way, I know he's in a better place now. Rest in peace dad … I love you."

T he Honolulu Star-Advertiser was unable to contact Kevin Cablay for further comment Saturday.

Ballard said the patrol officer was responding at 9:10 p.m. Friday to a report of a driver fleeing the
scene of a motor vehicle collision at the Leolua Regent, located at 94-099 Waipahu St., where
Renie Cablay
Renie Cablay owns a unit, according to city property tax records. T he officer identified the
suspect in the collision and located him in a courtyard, she said.

T he officer ordered him to stop but the suspect "continued to walk away before suddenly turning
and lunging toward him while holding a large knife, nearly striking the officer," Ballard said.

T he officer backed away, drew his firearm and ordered the suspect to put the knife down, she said.
Instead, the man fled to his second-floor apartment and refused to come out.

T he officer, fearing that others might be in the apartment, entered the unit, Ballard said. T he man
"again lunged at the officer at close range" and the officer fired three shots, striking the suspect in
the head and chest.

No one else was in the apartment.

Because the circumstances required immediate action and were based on police policies and
procedures, "the officer had a right to go in, fearing for somebody else's safety," Ballard said.

Police said the suspect had no prior convictions but did have numerous temporary restraining
orders against him.

T he police officer involved in the shooting is a

5 1/2-year veteran of the

Honolulu Police Department assigned to the Pearl City district. He was not injured.

T he officer was placed on administrative leave, as is standard procedure in such cases. HPD's
Professional Standards Office is also investigating the shooting.

Honolulu Prosecutor Keith Kaneshiro also was at the Waipahu scene, Ballard said.

Last year the Legislature passed a bill that set up a committee under the Department of the
Attorney General to investigate such incidents. T he panel, however, has not yet convened.

"We want the public to be confident in the fact that our officers are doing the right thing," Ballard
said.

Honolulu police do not yet have body-worn cameras to document their encounters with the public,
although HPD did complete a pilot program.

"We're expecting a rollout around the end of the summer," Ballard said.

"T his is a reminder, too, for the officers and also for the public that sometimes a seemingly
innocent, very routine type of case can turn into a deadly incident," she said. "People think it's just a
routine, day-to-day case. T here are no routine cases for the officers on the road."

Copyrig ht © 2018 Honolulu Star-Advertiser, All rights reserved.

 
Man shot by police was awaiting mental fitness - Honolulu Star-
Advertiser (HI) - June 6, 2018
June 6, 2018 | Honolulu Star-Advertiser (HI) | Leila Fujimori

T he 55-year-old former prison guard shot and killed by police Friday had an upcoming trial for a
2017 terroristic threatening case in which he allegedly threatened a neighbor with a machete.

Renie Cablay's jury trial in that threatening case, set for May 7, had been delayed pending a May
Renie Cablay
30 mental fitness hearing, but a court-appointed psychologist requested the court continue the
fitness hearing for July 3.

Cablay's son Kevin posted on Facebook that his father suffered from psychological issues and
severe paranoia in the past two years but had problems most of his life.

Court records of alleged crimes and restraining orders against him show that Cablay's mental
health was called into question time and again.

He resigned last year from his job as an adult corrections officer at Oahu Community Correctional
Center, where he had worked from February 1994 to October 2017, Department of Public Safety
spokeswoman Toni Schwartz said. Cablay had been on leave from work Sept. 30 when he allegedly
threatened his neighbor.

T he 55-year-old Cablay had been free on $50,010 bail in the threat case when police said he fled
the scene of a motor vehicle collision Friday.

A police officer tracked the registered owner of the vehicle, which turned out to be Cablay, to the
Leolua

Regent apartments, at 94-099 Waipahu St. T he officer spotted and identified him as the suspect in
the hit-and-run crash and ordered him to stop in the courtyard of the apartment complex.

Instead, Cablay pulled out a large knife and lunged at the officer, then ran up to his second-floor
apartment,

police said.

T he officer, fearing for the safety of anyone inside, entered Cablay's apartment, Honolulu Police
Chief Susan Ballard said Saturday at a news conference. Cablay again allegedly lunged at the
officer with the knife. T hat's when the officer fired three shots at Cablay.

T he Honolulu Medical Examiner's Office said Cablay died of gunshot wounds to his neck and torso
at the scene of the shooting.

After Cablay allegedly threatened his neighbor with a machete Sept. 30, he was holed up in his
apartment for more than six hours while a police SWAT  team and canine units swarmed the
building's courtyard. He finally surrendered to police peacefully.

On Sept. 12, two weeks prior to the alleged machete threat, Cablay was accused of physically
abusing Florence Cablay, a family or household member, and a law enforcement officer.

Florence Cablay filed for a temporary restraining order Sept. 13.

An Oahu grand jury indicted Cablay Oct. 19 on charges of assaulting a law enforcement officer and
abuse of a family or household member.

On March 27 the court

appointed examiners to determine whether Cablay was mentally fit to proceed with trial in that
case.

T he court in that case also rescheduled the mental fitness hearing to July 3.

In December 1995 his ex-wife, Belina Cablay, took out a T RO against him. She obtained another
one in March 1998.

She filed for divorce and got another restraining order April 1, 1998. At that time the judge ordered
Renie Cablay to T he Queen's Medical Center for a mental evaluation.
Renie Cablay

Copyrig ht © 2018 Honolulu Star-Advertiser, All rights reserved.

 