

Franklin County deputy wounded in shootout returns - Columbus
Dispatch, The (OH) - May 23, 2018 - page 2B
May 23, 2018 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Jim Woods | Page 2B

An honor escort of law enforcement officers was there to greet Franklin County Sheriff's Deputy
Jacob "Jake" Heaberlin on his release from OhioHealth Grant Medical Center on Tuesday afternoon.

Heaberlin, 29, was wounded in the lower abdomen on May 12 when he and two Franklin T ownship
police officers traded gunfire with Darrell B ruf f y
Road. Bruffy was killed in the exchange.

Darrell B ruf f y, 55, of Orient, on Harrisburg Pike and Eakin

Heaberlin had begun pursuing Bruffy, who was driving a Ford F-250 pickup truck erratically and had
struck a vehicle in the area of Bohnburg Avenue and Big Run Bluffs Boulevard on Columbus' West
Side before taking off. Heaberlin tried to stop the pickup near Clime Road, but Bruffy kept going.

Bruffy ran his pickup into a utility pole in front of a Shell station at the corner of Harrisburg Pike and
Eakin. Heaberlin, with gun drawn, approached the driver's side and ordered Bruffy to get out of the
car, according to eyewitnesses.

What followed was three separate bursts totaling more than 30 shots in less than a minute. Both
Heaberlin and Bruffy were down. T he bullet that struck Heaberlin hit just below his armored vest.

Heaberlin had been in OhioHealth Grant Medical Center since the shootout. Other Franklin County
deputies, along with officers from the Columbus Police Traffic Control Motorcycle Unit, gave him
an honor escort home, according to a sheriff's office post on social media.

jwoods@dispatch.com

@Woodsnight

Copyrig ht 2018 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 

Man killed in shootout had warrants - Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) -
May 14, 2018 - page 1B
May 14, 2018 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Sheridan Hendrix | Page 1B

T he man who died in a shootout with law enforcement Saturday evening had active warrants for
violating protection orders.

T he Franklin County sheriff's office said in a statement Sunday afternoon that the deceased
suspect, who shot and wounded a sheriff's deputy, was identified as Darrell J. B ruf f y
Darrell J. B ruf f y, 55, of
Orient.

T he release did not identify the injured sheriff's deputy, who was taken to OhioHealth Grant
Medical Center on Saturday night in critical condition. After a surgery, the deputy was upgraded to
stable condition.

Saturday's South Side shootout took place just after 6:30 p.m., when the deputy attempted to stop
a man in a black pickup truck near Clime Road and Harrisburg Pike, said Marc Gofstein, sheriff's
office spokesman.

It is unclear whether Bruffy's outstanding warrants factored into the initial pursuit.

T he driver didn't stop, and a pursuit went on for five or six minutes, ending with the truck crashed
into a pole in front of the Shell gas station at Harrisburg Pike and Hopkins Avenue.

It was at that corner where law enforcement officers and Bruffy started shooting.

Gofstein wouldn't say who fired first or how many shots were fired. It all remains under
investigation, he said.

In eyewitness videos released by local T V stations, three seperate sets of gunfire, each with about
10-second lulls in between, are heard exchanged between officers and Bruffy. More than 20 shots
were exchanged altogether. In one video, a woman said, "Oh my God, he's shooting at the cop."

During the past two months, Bruffy had outstanding warrants for his arrest spanning for domestic
violence, assault and criminal trespassing, along with two violations of protection orders.

On March 24, police were called to the home of Bruffy's estranged wife, Michelle, on a report that
he had broken in and was assaulting her. When police arrived, officers heard a woman from inside
repeatedly screaming for help from an open window, according to police reports.

Ms. Bruffy told officers that she had separated from her husband two weeks earlier. With blood on
her shirt, she told police that Mr. Bruffy forced his way into her home and proceeded to strangle
and strike her, according to police reports.

A temporary protection order was issued against Mr. Bruffy on March 26. But police were called
again to Ms. Bruffy's home about a week later, on April 6. She told police that Mr. Bruffy came into
her home while she was gone and took a .40-caliber silver Ruger handgun.

Ms. Bruffy told officers she kept the firearm because she "lives in fear" of her ex-husband and that
"she doesn't feel safe anywhere now that he has a handgun," according to police reports.

Police were called to Ms. Bruffy's home on May 6 after she walked outside to close the shed and
said she saw Mr. Bruffy standing in the shed watching her.

More information regarding the investigation will be released Monday, according to the sheriff's
office.

shendrix@dispatch.com

@sheridan120

Copyrig ht 2018 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 

 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) - An Ohio grand jury declined to indict three police officers who fatally shot a driver during

an attempted traffic stop in May.  

Franklin County Prosecutor Ron O'Brien says a grand jury this week heard evidence in the death of 55-year-old

Darrell Bruffy and determined the Franklin Township officers involved did not act unlawfully.  

Authorities say Deputy Jacob Heaberlin tried to stop an erratic driver in a pickup truck on May 12. Bruffy crashed

the truck near a gas station and fired a handgun at Heaberlin, hitting him in the abdomen. Heaberlin and two other

responding officers returned fire.  

Bruffy was declared dead at the scene. Heaberlin underwent surgery and spent 10 days recovering in the hospital.  

County prosecutors present evidence in all fatal officer-involved shootings to grand juries for evaluation.  

Credit: Associated Press 
 
 

Authorities: Driver shoots deputy, dies amid - Associated Press State
Wire: Ohio (OH) - May 14, 2018
May 14, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Ohio (OH)

COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — An Ohio sheriff's office says a deputy who tried to make a traffic stop
was shot in the lower abdomen by a driver who was then killed amid gunfire from other officers
responding to the scene.

T he Franklin County Sheriff's Office in Columbus says the wounded deputy, Jacob Heaberlin,
underwent surgery after the Saturday evening shooting and was recovering Monday at a hospital.

Authorities say Heaberlin tried to stop an erratic driver in a pickup truck, and when the truck
crashed near a gas station, the driver fired a handgun at the approaching deputy.

Investigators identified the slain driver as 55-year-old Darrell B ruf f y
wanted for violating a protection order.

Darrell B ruf f y, of Orient, who was also

No one else was hurt. T he shooting remains under investigation.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Witness kept filming shootout as it unfolded - Columbus Dispatch, The
(OH) - May 15, 2018 - page 1A
May 15, 2018 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Holly Zachariah and Patrick Cooley | Page 1A

T he first 911 calls started coming in just about 6:25 p.m. Saturday, with people telling dispatchers
at both the Columbus Division of Police and the Franklin County sheriff's office about the erratic
driver in the Ford-F250 pickup who was wreaking havoc on the city's West Side.

T he truck, callers said, had hit a vehicle in the area of Bohnburg Avenue and Big Run Bluffs
Boulevard and took off. T he driver was running red lights, weaving and speeding, and maybe had
even hit a house.

Franklin County Deputy Sheriff Jacob Heaberlin, 29, heard all this unfolding over just a couple of
minutes and intercepted the pickup. He tried to make a stop near Clime Road but the driver --
whom authorities identified as 55-year-old Darrell B ruf f y
Pike.

Darrell B ruf f y of Orient -- kept going down Harrisburg

And that's where 19-year-old Ryan Smith can pick up the story. He was an up-close eyewitness to
the mayhem that unfolded at the intersection of Harrisburg Pike and Eakin Road on Saturday night
-- and used his iPhone 6S to record the ensuing gunbattle that left Bruffy dead and Heaberlin
wounded.

Smith and his girlfriend had just pulled away from a Burger King and were northbound at the traffic
light on Harrisburg Pike when Bruffy's black truck sped up behind them with a sheriff's cruiser right
on its tail. Turning onto Eakin Road, the pickup fishtailed and crashed into a pole in front of the Shell
gas station. And Smith, who lives just a couple miles down Eakin Road, started recording from the
passenger seat of his girlfriend's Chrysler sedan.

He watched the deputy -- whom he now knows was Heaberlin -- draw his gun and take a couple of
steps toward the pickup.

"T he cop was saying 'Get out of the car, get out of the car,'" Smith recalled Monday. "T hat's when
I realized I wasn't just recording the end of a car chase. T hat's when I thought, 'T his could really go
south.'"

T hen, the first of what sounds on his video like at least 33 shots rang out in three separate bursts
over the course of less than a minute. "I was like, 'We gotta hit the deck,'" Smith recalled. But he
never stopped recording.

Franklin County Sheriff Dallas Baldwin said Monday that Bruffy opened fire with a handgun, hitting
Heaberlin in the lower abdomen just below his armored vest. Heaberlin returned fire, and so did
Franklin Township Police Officers Roger Myers and Joe Sheridan -- both on the force less than a
year, their chief said. Each had roared to the scene after hearing the pursuit.

According to police radio traffic released Monday, Heaberlin said into his mic at 6:44 p.m., "I'm hit
somewhere." T wenty-nine seconds later another voice on the police radio comes across: "Officer
down."

Baldwin said Heaberlin, a seven-year veteran of the sheriff's office who works second-shift patrol,
is tired but in good spirits at OhioHealth Grant Medical Center after surgery.

Chief Deputy Jim Gilbert said Heaberlin will need some time to recover but "he's very much wanting
to get back to the streets."

It will take some time to sort out who hit Bruffy and where, said Chief Deputy Rick Minerd, who
oversees the sheriff's office investigations division. T he Franklin County coroner's office conducted
the autopsy, and it will all become part of the investigation being handled by the Ohio Bureau of
Criminal Investigation.

Even before the 911 calls came in Saturday, Bruffy was known to law enforcement. He was
accused earlier this year of breaking into his estranged wife's house and assaulting her. She told
police he had stolen her .40 caliber Ruger handgun.

When he died Saturday, Bruffy had outstanding arrest warrants for domestic violence, assault,
criminal trespassing and violations of a protection order.

T hat intersection at Harrisburg Pike bustles all the time, with a CVS on one corner, a Walgreens on
another and a small motel nearby. Minerd said investigators are pleased that people had the
foresight to flee the area or get down when the shooting started and that no one else was injured.

Nobody had to tell Smith that. He watched it all firsthand. When the first shots rang out, he
watched the driver in the car in front of his jump over a console and bail through a passenger door,
leaving his vehicle abandoned in the road. A woman who had been on her phone outside the Shell
station hit the ground on her belly. People ran screaming.

Smith, who will be a sophomore at Wittenberg University in Springfield and is home for the
summer, said he was worried only about keeping his girlfriend safe and wasn't really thinking about
what, exactly, his phone was capturing. She laid across the console to avoid the windows, and he
jumped from the car to use the vehicle as cover as the bullets flew. Before she could even
scramble out to follow him, it was over as quickly as it started.

T he couple initially drove away from the scene but returned later to show the video to detectives.
Until they went back, Smith said, they didn't really know the outcome of what they had seen. He
had been hoping, even though his mind already knew better, that maybe everyone would be OK.

It will take some time, he said, to get over what he witnessed.

"I saw this terrible thing happen. You can't prepare your mind for those things that you see. You
just can't," he said. "Nobody wants to see another person die."

hzachariah@dispatch.com

@hollyzachariah

pcooley@dispatch.com

@PatrickACooley

Copyrig ht 2018 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 
Suspect who was killed in Columbus shooting and - Dayton Daily News
(OH) - May 14, 2018
May 14, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Breaking News Staff

COLUMBUS —

UPDAT E @ 12:40 p.m. (May 14)

T he Franklin County Sheriff's Office has identified the suspect who was killed in Saturday's officer
involved shooting as 55-year-old Darrell J. B ruf f y
Darrell J. B ruf f y of Orient, Ohio. T he deputy who was shot and
injured has been identified as 29-year-old Jacob Heaberlin, a seven year veteran. According to the
Sheriff's Office, Deputy Heaberlin is doing well and is in good spirits as he recovers from non-life
threatening injuries.

FIRST  REPORT :

A Franklin County deputy was shot and a suspect was killed in an exchange of gunfire Saturday
evening following an attempted traffic stop.

T he deputy, who was not identified, was taken to Grant Medical Center and has undergone surgery
for injuries that are not life-threatening. T he deputy, a seven-year veteran, is in stable condition,
the Franklin County Sheriff's Office told our media partner, WBNS-T V in Columbus.

T he suspect's name also was not released.

T he incident happened around 6:45 p.m. in the area of Harrisburg Pike and Hopkins Avenue.

"T his is the worst phone call to receive," Sheriff Dallas Baldwin said. "When you get a call from your
radio room that you have a deputy shot, you immediately think the worst.

"We have received calls from everyone you can think of expressing their support," Baldwin said.
"T oday is the one-year anniversary of the Kirkersville police chief who was killed last year.
Unfortunately, it's also police memorial week. Tonight is a real reminder of how dangerous police
work is."

Got a tip? Call our monitored 24-hour line, 937-259-2237, or send it to newsdesk@cmgohio.com.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 

 
COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) - Authorities in Ohio have identified a man who they say was shot and killed in an exchange

of gunfire with a sheriff's deputy who also was shot.  

The Franklin County Sheriff's Office on Sunday identified the suspect who was killed as 55-year-old Darrell Bruffy,

The sheriff's office says the shootout happened Saturday night in Columbus. Authorities say the deputy tried to

stop a pickup truck and the driver fled. After a short pursuit, the truck crashed in front of a gas station and shots

The deputy was taken to a hospital in critical condition, but has since been upgraded to stable condition. The

deputy's name has not been released.  

The sheriff's office has not said why the deputy tried to stop the truck.  
 
 



Man killed in shootout with police - Reporter, The (Lebanon, IN) -
December 20, 2018
December 20, 2018 | Reporter, The (Lebanon, IN) | Staff Writer

Indiana State Police detectives from the Putnamville Post are currently investigating an officer-
involved shooting in T erre Haute that left one dead.

At about 10:30 a.m. T uesday, police say a West T erre Haute officer attempted to stop a white
2018 Chevy Colorado for failing to stop at a red light. T he officer activated his lights and siren while
behind the vehicle, but the vehicle failed to stop.

A T erre Haute officer heard the radio traffic and assisted with the pursuit.

T he vehicle eventually pulled into a parking lot near 10 1/2 Street and Wabash Avenue. Police say
the suspect, later identified as 24-year-old David Frederick
handgun visible to the officers. Several commands to drop the handgun were ignored.

David Frederick of Vincennes, exited the vehicle with a

Police say the Frederick raised his handgun and began firing at officers and they returned fire,
striking him multiple times.Frederick was pronounced dead at the scene by a deputy coroner with
the Vigo County Coroner's office.

Both officers have been placed on administrative leave, which is customary in officer-involved
shootings.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Reporter / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 
Officers' names released in police shooting - Tribune-Star, The (Terre
Haute, IN) - December 21, 2018
December 21, 2018 | Tribune-Star, The (Terre Haute, IN) | Tribune-Star staff report

Indiana State Police have released names of the two officers involved in the shooting of a suspect
T uesday evening in T erre Haute.

West T erre Haute Police Officer Caleb T alpas — with 5 1/2 years of service — and T erre Haute
Police Sergeant Justin Sears — with 10 years of service — shot and killed 24-year-old David
David
Frederick of Vincennes after a brief chase and an exchange of gunfire.
Frederick

State police said T alpas tried to pull over a Frederick after his pickup truck failed to stop at a red
light about 10:30 p.m. T uesday. Frederick refused to stop. Sears later joined T alpas in the chase,
which ended at a parking lot near 10 1/2 Street and Wabash Avenue.

Police said Frederick got out of his truck with a handgun in his hands. Despite repeated commands
to drop the gun, Frederick raised the gun and began to fire.

T alpas and Sears returned fire, striking Frederick several times.

Frederick was pronounced dead at the scene. Neither officer was injured. ISP said its preliminary
investigation revealed Frederick had recently expressed thoughts of suicide.

T he investigation by ISP detectives continues. Once it is complete, a report will be submitted to the
Vigo County Prosecutor's Office for review. ISP has said the officers have been placed on
administrative leave during the investigation, which is normal.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Tribune-Star / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 
Man dies after exchange of gunfire with police in - Associated Press
State Wire: Indiana (IN) - December 20, 2018
December 20, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Indiana (IN)

T ERRE HAUT E, Ind. (AP) — Authorities say a southwestern Indiana man has died in a gunfight with
police.

Indiana State Police say preliminary autopsy results show 24-year-old David Frederick
Vincennes died of multiple gunshot wounds.

David Frederick of

Police say a West T erre Haute officer tried to stop Frederick's pickup truck for running a red light
but he wouldn't pull over, and a T erre Haute officer joined the pursuit. Police say the truck pulled
into a parking lot and Frederick emerged from it holding a handgun, ignored commands to drop it,
and opened fire on the officers. Both officers returned fire.

Police say Frederick had recently expressed thoughts of suicide.

T he names of the officers haven't been released yet.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Name of suspect killed in police shooting released - Tribune-Star, The
(Terre Haute, IN) - December 19, 2018
December 19, 2018 | Tribune-Star, The (Terre Haute, IN) | Lisa Trigg Tribune-Star

Update, 6:45p.m. Indiana State Police detectives are investigating an officer-involved shooting in
T erre Haute that left the suspect dead.

Killed was 24-year-old David Frederick

David Frederick of Vincennes.

State police said a West T erre Haute Officer tried to pull over a white 2018 Chevrolet Colorado for
failing to stop at a red light about 10:30 p.m. T uesday.

T he pickup truck did not stop, and a T erre Haute police officer described by that city's department
as a longtime supervisor joined the chase.

T he truck eventually pulled into a parking lot near 10 1/2 Street and Wabash Avenue, where
Frederick got out with a handgun in his hands, according to a news release from Trooper B.J.
Patterson of the Putnamville post.

Police said despite repeated commands to drop the gun, Frederick raised the gun and began to fire
at officers, who returned fire, striking Frederick several times.

A deputy Vigo County coroner pronounced Frederick dead at the scene. Neither officer was injured.

An autopsy was performed Wednesday morning by pathologist Dr. Deli Adeagbo at T erre Haute
Regional Hospital. Preliminary results indicate cause of death was multiple gunshot wounds. Family
members were notified.

ISP said its preliminary investigation revealed Frederick had recently expressed thoughts of suicide.

State police said the names of the officers involved will be released within a week. Both officers
have been placed on administrative leave, which is customary in police shootings.

Investigating were ISP Detective Don Curtis, several troopers and ISP Crime Scene Investigator
Sgt. Brandon Mullen. T he Vigo County prosecutor's and coroner's assisted.

Once the ISP investigation is complete, the report will be submitted to the Vigo County
Prosecutor's Office for review.

Update, 7 a.m. An autopsy is planned at 10 a.m. today for a 24-year-old man who died T uesday
night in an exchange of gunfire with police.

T he name of the man has not been released pending notification of relatives.

T rooper B.J. Patterson of the Indiana State Police said investigation continues into the incident,
which began about 10:30 p.m. T uesday.

A West T erre Haute Police officer attempted to stop a vehicle for running a red light but the
vehicle fled.

A T erre Haute Police officer joined the pursuit, Patterson said, and the chase ended at 10 1/2
Street and Wabash Avenue when the suspect pickup truck pulled into a parking lot just east of the
railroad tracks on the north side of Wabash.

T he driver got out of the vehicle holding a handgun. Patterson said officers commanded the man
to put down the gun, but he fired at police. Both police officers fired at the suspect, who was
pronounced dead at the scene by a coroner, Patterson said.

T he man was not wanted on any warrants.

A news release with additional information is expected to be released today.

Original Post: 5:53 a.m. Wednesday, Dec. 19, 2018

An officer-involved shooting in downtown T erre Haute is being investigated today by Indiana State
Police at Putnamville.

T he incident began late Tuesday with a police pursuit, ending near 10th Street and Wabash Avenue.

A suspect exchanged shots with police, and the suspect reportedly died at the scene.

No other details were available this morning.

Police are asking the public to avoid the area of the investigation.

T erre Haute Police posted the following information on the agency's Facebook page.

"On December 18, 2018, at approximately 10:30 P.M., a veteran supervisor with our department
assisted a West T erre Haute Police Officer with a pursuit that ended at 10th Street and Wabash
Avenue. Officers indicated the driver exited the vehicle with a handgun and an exchange of gunfire
occurred. T he male driver was pronounced deceased at the scene. Pursuant to our department
policy, the scene was immediately secured, and the investigation has been turned over to the
Indiana State Police. Neither officer was injured in the exchange."

Copyrig ht 2018, The Tribune-Star / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 


 
Publication: Daily O'Collegian, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater OK. 

The evening of March 28, William John Dominguez called 911 and said he was headed for hell.  

“I have a gun and a knife in my back pocket and my waist,” Dominguez said in the 911 recording the Stillwater

Police Department released. “There’s nothing for me to live for.”  

Dispatcher Vanessa Prince talked with Dominguez, 31, for about 10 minutes as he walked along Boomer Road in

Stillwater. He relayed his long history of mental illness, telling her he had been on “multiple psych meds” since he

was 5.  

medication at all? Ever?”  

“That’s a pretty long history of dealing with it,” Prince said. “Has anything in the past worked, any kind of

“Yeah,” Dominguez replied. “And when I told the doctor that—”  

Dominguez was interrupted when two Stillwater police officers arrived on scene.  

“Hey, buddy, come here,” one officer can be heard saying.  

The officers had driven past Dominguez and pulled into a parking lot near Stillwater High School’s football

stadium. Visible on dashcam footage SPD released, they got out of their cars.  

“Well, I thought about just hitting the lights and turning them on and stopping him,” one officer said. “But—”  

“I don’t want to be right next to traffic if he’s suicidal,” the other finished.  

“Exactly.”  

One officer can be seen grabbing his assault rifle from his patrol car.   

“If he’s got a gun in his waistband,” he said.  

The officers moved toward Dominguez, stepping out of one dashcam’s frame. The dashcam in the other officer’s

patrol car reportedly malfunctioned, and SPD has not located its footage.  

The officers cannot be seen, but the audio continues.  

“Did they say his name?” one asked the other. “Did they say what his name was?”  

Seconds after their initial contact, the officers’ tones changed.  

“Don’t do it,” one officer warned. “Don’t do it.”  

“Don’t,” the other commanded. “Don’t do it.”  

Four gunshots rang out. Dominguez was shot and killed.  

Dominguez reportedly pulled out his weapons, and the officers fired “to stop his actions,” according to an SPD

Thursday, officials announced the shooting was justified and released the names of the officers involved.  

Officers Micheal Casteel and Trevor Meridith, and Prince, the dispatcher, all declined requests for comment

press release.   

Thursday.  

‘It was a call for help’  

OSBI agents waited to identify Dominguez until they made contact with his next of kin, which happened two days

after the shooting when his brother, Raphael Dominguez, 29, called them.  

Raphael, who lives in California, said he learned of his brother’s death when one of Dominguez’ friends sent him a

direct message on Facebook.  

dead.’”  

“(The friend) was like, ‘Hey, this isn’t a joke,’” Raphael said. “‘I need one of you guys to answer me. Your brother is

In the 911 call, Dominguez said he didn’t have any family. Raphael said in a phone interview with the  O’Colly  that

he and Dominguez grew up in foster care in California and were constantly separated. Raphael said Dominguez

had moved to Stillwater from Texas about six months ago and was unemployed.  

Raphael said he knew Dominguez struggled with depression and alcoholism, but the brothers kept in touch, and

Raphael had told Dominguez he was always going to be there for him.  

“I watched the dashcam footage,” Raphael said. “I listened to his call. He was literally asking for help. It was a call

for help.”  

About a week before the shooting, Raphael said he told Dominguez to call him if he had any problems, and

Dominguez said he would. Raphael said there's no explanation for the officers’ use of force.  

“I want answers,” Raphael said. “All he was going to do was go home. I feel like the officers maybe literally had

something against him. He had a problem with authority figures, like officers, but still if he would cooperate, why

not a Taser? Why not other options? Why the gun?”  

Raphael said he believed his brother might have “said something officers didn’t like” when they were called to

check on his welfare six days earlier.  

SPD said it had contacted Dominguez only once before his shooting. Officers took Dominguez into protective

custody for a medical evaluation March 19 after an unidentified caller told police Dominguez was having “suicidal

ideations,” according to an SPD press release.  

But records the  O’Colly  obtained from SPD showed an unidentified person called in a welfare check on Dominguez

on March 22 because he “did not show up for his appointment.” Dispatchers contacted Dominguez, and he told

them he had overslept. The report does not detail any interaction between Dominguez and officers.  

In the 911 call, Dominguez said he had a gun, but Raphael said he didn’t think his brother had a real gun. He said

he knew Dominguez owned a BB gun but did not have any carbon dioxide cartridges.  

Raphael also said Dominguez had been cutting himself, but a woman he was “talking to” had taken his knife.  

Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation declined to comment on what weapons were recovered from the scene.  

Casteel and Meridith were placed on paid administrative leave for about two weeks until OSBI finished the criminal

investigation.  

The officers were not identified until Thursday, when prosecutors of the Payne County District Attorney’s Office

determined the shooting was justified and the SPD administrative investigation was completed, according to an

SPD press release. The officers returned to work earlier this week, SPD Capt. Kyle Gibbs said.  

“I just want (the officers) to know, like, that was wrong,” Raphael said. “I’m sure if they had a family member and

somebody shot them, they wouldn’t be happy."  

‘Why not other options? Why the gun?’  

In the days following the shooting, citizens voiced criticism on social media:   

Stillwater PD has had this man laying in the street for an hour now. —CHUN-LI (@TheHighrolla) March 29, 2018  

Tragic. I'm heart broken for his family. Waiting for the name to be released. Wonder how it would have played out if

the cops had not pulled their guns. —Laura Hedrick (@Waterdancer99) March 29, 2018 +6 Stillwater News

Press/Facebook +6 Stillwater News Press/Facebook  

Dominguez told dispatchers he was suicidal, and many social media comments referred to his death as “suicide by

cop.”  

cop” is a “slang, unofficial term.”  

Geoffrey Alpert, a criminology and criminal justice professor at the University of South Carolina, said “suicide by

Alpert has studied high-risk police activities for more than 25 years, including police use of force, officer decision-

making and the effectiveness of less-lethal technology available to police.  

“Suicide by cop” is a term based on perception, Alpert said, because “you really don’t know.” He said shootings can

have the components of a “suicide by cop” situation, in which a desperate person purposefully draws a lethal

reaction from police, but “to put a label on it like that is much more unofficial.”  

Alpert said police officers' use of force should depend on the threat level they encounter in a situation. He said

officers generally do not want to kill or injure someone, but they have to act to protect their own lives. +6 Kelsy

Schlotthauer/O'Colly  

and killed Ralph Willis, a murder suspect.  

Before March 28, the latest officer-involved shooting in Stillwater was Jan. 29, 2015, when Sgt. Cody Manuel shot

Manuel has been a police officer for 13 years. In an interview with the  O’Colly  this week, he said police officers

have to deal with people who are “at their worst.” In these “ugly” situations, he said he hopes people listen to facts

rather than their emotions.  

that determination.”  

“It’s easy to say, ‘I don’t feel like this was justified,’” Manuel said. “But it’s harder to look at all the facts and make

Alpert and Manuel said aiming to only wound an individual who is armed, or whom officers perceive to be armed, is

unrealistic; officers must aim for the torso.  

“Shooting in the leg. ... That’s movie stuff,” Alpert said. “If you are in a situation where your life could be at risk,

you’ve got to shoot at the largest target. Shooting the gun out of your hand, that’s TV-Western. That’s not reality.”  

Manuel said officers are trained to use their weapons as a last resort to stop undesired actions, and the torso is

the most effective area, other than the head, to do so. A person’s arms and legs are likely to move, and shooting

moving targets is “incredibly hard.”   

Officers are held accountable for every bullet that leaves their guns, Manuel said.  

“None of us want to shoot an innocent bystander,” Manuel said. “To take the chance of trying to shoot somebody

in the leg and lose that round to go on to God knows where, that’s unacceptable.”  

As for less-lethal technology, such as Tasers, Alpert said their use also depends on the situation. Tasers can be

unreliable, Alpert said, because there are many factors that determine their success, such as whether officers are

close enough to their target or whether the individual is wearing light enough clothing for the prongs to penetrate.  

Alpert said lone officers typically don’t use their Tasers in high-risk situations because if they don’t work, then

“You’re dead.” But in a situation with multiple officers, Alpert said officers often split, one officer presenting non-

lethal force and another officer providing lethal cover.  

“(The Supreme Court of the United States) has said you don’t look at this in 20/20 hindsight, and you don’t,” Alpert

said, referring to the 1989 decision in Graham v. Connor. “You have to look at it as a forward, in-progress, tense,

rapidly evolving situation.”  

As for leaving Dominguez’ body in the road for more than an hour, Alpert said that’s often not the police

department’s decision, as it depends on the availability of the coroner and the investigating agency.  

“You’ve got to understand there are a lot of pushes and pulls,” Alpert said. “But, absolutely, you want to get a body

out of there as soon as possible because it’s insulting to the family.”    

’A rock in a still pond’  

Nationally, law enforcement officers shot and killed about 1,000 people in 2017, according to The  Washington

Post 's database. Of those, about 25 percent were reportedly mentally ill. In Oklahoma, police shot and killed 26

people in 2017, six of whom were reportedly mentally ill. Only one was unarmed.   +6 Kelsy Schlotthauer/O'Colly

Data from The Washington Post's "Fatal Force" database  

Alpert said mental illness adds a level of complexity to situations officers respond to. Officers can be trained in

“Mental Health 101,” but it’s unrealistic to think they could be trained as mental health professionals, Alpert said.  

“We expect so much of our police officers, and now we want to make them mental health providers,” Alpert said.

“We forget what we pay these men and women, you know, and it’s not a lot when we’re asking so much from

them.”  

Mike Brose, chief executive officer of the Mental Health Association of Oklahoma, said the mental health training

available to officers is “still woefully inadequate” compared to other training they receive. In police training

nationally, a “great deal more time” is spent on use of tactics than is spent on soft skills and how to interact with

Brose said the lack of training is unfair to officers who respond to mental health crisis events.  

“They have a difficult job,” Brose said. “It’d be hard for the best mental health professional I know to handle some

people, Brose said.  

of these situations.”  

There might be a solution.      

This year in Tulsa, for two days a week, a community response team will be available to respond to calls for service

that involve people in mental health crises.  

The three-person team is composed of a police officer from the Tulsa Police Department, a firefighter/EMT from

the Tulsa Fire Department and a licensed mental health professional from Family and Children’s Services, a

behavioral healthcare and family services provider in Tulsa.  

“You got the best of both worlds working together as a team,” Brose said.  

The EMT takes care of medical interventions, the police officer ensures the safety of everyone involved and the

mental health professional interacts with the individual, Brose said.   

Brose said the pilot program is modeled after similar teams in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and San Antonio, where

Brose said “amazing” data shows reduction in the use of deadly force. Brose said the Tulsa team is meant to

reduce tension on calls involving people suffering from mental illness, but it can risk only so much when it comes

to safety. +6 Kelsy Schlotthauer/O'Colly Data from The Washington Post's "Fatal Force database  

“When a firearm or weapon comes out, all bets are off,” Brose said. “Law enforcement has a clear and mandated

legal right to protect themselves and the public surrounding them.”  

Brose said he respects officers have to “think fast” and react quickly in certain situations, but police departments

need to encourage healthy assessments of the use of deadly force, especially when they involve people identified

“It’s a rock in a still pond,” Brose said. “And the reverberations are going in every direction for a lifetime, multiple

Subject:

Social networks; Shootings; Criminal investigations; Mental health care; Firearms;

as having a serious mental health issue.  

lifetimes, affecting so many people.”  
 
 


 
Publication: Daily O'Collegian, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater OK. 

The Stillwater Police Department will not immediately release the names of the two officers involved in Wednesday

night’s fatal shooting of William John Dominguez, 31.  

Capt. Kyle Gibbs, SPD’s public information officer, said the department will not release the officers’ names until the

Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation’s homicide investigation and SPD’s internal investigation are complete.  

OSBI public information officer Jessica Brown said she would not release the officer’s names because they are

“I don’t release any names in such a category unless they have been arrested or charged with a crime,” Brown said

Although OSBI will not release the officers’ names, Brown said any other department, such as SPD, could release

suspects in an ongoing investigation.  

in a text Thursday.  

the names “if they wish.”  

SPD chief Ryan McCaghren’s “position and practice” is “that we will not release the names until both the criminal

and administrative investigations are complete,” Gibbs said in a text Friday.  

SPD’s internal investigation will not begin until OSBI’s has concluded, and as of Friday, OSBI’s investigation is

ongoing.  

Normally, an officer’s name or badge number is found in the radio log next to any case he or she responded to and

in the corresponding public incident report, pursuant to the Oklahoma Open Records Act. But in this particular

case, neither officer who fired at Dominguez is listed in the radio log or public incident report. The badge number in

the radio log belongs to an SPD detective and the officer listed in the public incident report is a shift supervisor,

and neither shot Dominguez, Gibbs said.  

The names and badge numbers of the officers who shot Dominguez are not listed in the radio log or public incident

report because they did not file the initial report, Gibbs said. When officers are involved in a shooting, it is SPD’s

policy to allow them at least 72 hours before they have to write a report.    

“They had to shoot a person,” Gibbs said. “By policy, under an administrative investigation, we can’t even ask them

any questions for 72 hours.”  

days afterward.  

Gibbs said this policy is largely based on psychological reasons related to post-traumatic stress disorder, such as

memory fragmentation, when a person is unable to relay the full memory of a traumatic event until a couple of

Oklahoma City and Tulsa police departments almost always release an officer’s name a couple of days after or

immediately following an officer-involved shooting, contrasting Stillwater’s departmental practices.  

Brown said Oklahoma City and Tulsa police departments are large enough to conduct their own criminal

investigations of officer-involved shootings, so it is up to their respective investigators whether to release

suspects’ names.  

unbiased.  

Gibbs said SPD had OSBI take over this case to ensure the criminal investigation into the officers’ actions is

Upon completion, OSBI will present a report to the Payne County District Attorney’s office, and prosecutors will

determine whether to file charges against either of the officers.  

Until then, Brown said they will remain nameless.  
 
 


 
Publication: Daily O'Collegian, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater OK. 

The Stillwater Police Department has identified the two officers who shot and killed William John Dominguez, 31,

the night of March 28.  

After the Payne County District Attorney's Office declared the shooting "justified, appropriate and necessary,"

Micheal Casteel and Trevor Meridith have been named as the two officers who fatally shot Dominguez, according

to a press release from SPD Capt. Kyle Gibbs on Thursday.   

Casteel and Meridith, 8- and 9-year veterans of the department, respectively, responded to Dominguez' 911 call in

which he told dispatcher Vanessa Prince he had a gun and knife in his possession and was thinking of jumping

into oncoming traffic.  

As Casteel and Meridith approached Dominguez, Dominguez reportedly pulled a pistol and a knife from his pants,

posing "an immediate deadly threat to the officers as well as any pedestrians, traffic and apartment occupants in

the immediate vicinity," according to the release.  

Four gunshots rang out, and Dominguez fell to the ground, fatally wounded.  

"The Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation was asked to conduct the criminal investigation into the officer

involved shooting," Gibbs wrote in the release. "Their case was presented to the Payne County District Attorney

who determined the use of deadly force in this incident was justified, appropriate and necessary. The Stillwater

P.D. administrative review of the incident also determined the officers responded appropriately to the threat and

their use of lethal force was justified and in accordance with department policy."  

SPD had one contact with Dominguez on March 19, according to the release.  

Dominguez initiated a request for assistance through a third party and was taken into protective custody without

incident and taken for a medical evaluation, according to the release.  

Casteel and Meridith have been cleared to return to work as SPD officers.  
 
 


 
Publication: Daily O'Collegian, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater OK. 

One week after Stillwater police officers fatally shot William John Dominguez, the department reportedly cannot

find the second dashcam video from the shooting.  

Dominguez, 31, called 911 at about 8:15 p.m. March 28 and told dispatchers he was wielding a gun and knife and

feeling suicidal. Dominguez told dispatch he wanted to run into traffic on Boomer Road.  

Upon contact with two Stillwater officers, Dominguez “produced” his weapons and didn't comply with officers’

commands, according to an SPD press release. Officers fired four rounds, killing Dominguez.   

The O’Colly requested the corresponding dashcam video from the police department Thursday but received

redacted video from only one of the two patrol cars that initially responded to Dominguez’ call for service. Friday,

the  O’Colly requested the video from the other patrol car’s dashcam, but the department claimed the footage is

SPD Capt. Kyle Gibbs said the second dashcam video is not immediately available because of “technical

missing.  

difficulties.”  

Gibbs said every SPD marked patrol car has a dashcam that records events throughout officers’ shifts. Those

events are automatically uploaded to SPD’s server when patrol cars connect to the department’s Wi-Fi.  

Gibbs said the second patrol car’s dashcam never automatically uploaded its footage from March 28. Upon further

investigation, Gibbs said he discovered the dashcam in that patrol car hasn't uploaded anything since Feb. 1,

leaving more than two months' worth of footage in limbo.  

Technical glitches are rare in the dashcam system the department uses, Gibbs said, but this one is outstanding.    

Since 2014, SPD has used WatchGuard Video equipment in its patrol cars, specifically the HD 4RE In-Car Recording

System, Gibbs said. WatchGuard’s system has Record-After-The-Fact, a technology that allows users to record

video days after an event, according to WatchGuard’s website.  

Gibbs said he's hopeful the department can recover the second dashcam video using Record-After-The-Fact, but

he's not sure.  

Even if the footage is found, Gibbs said it’s likely the shooting was off-screen in the second dashcam video

because the angle of the second patrol car appears to point away from the incident in the other dashcam video.  

As of Tuesday night, the department hadn't located the video.  

On March 28, SPD requested the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation to investigate Dominguez’ shooting, a

practice common among smaller police departments in Oklahoma. Gibbs said SPD did this to ensure there would

be no bias in the investigation into the officers’ actions.  

When the homicide investigation is complete, OSBI will present a report to the Payne County District Attorney’s

Office, and prosecutors will determine whether to file charges against either officer.  

After OSBI’s investigation is complete, Gibbs said SPD’s administrative investigation will begin. SPD will not

release the names of the officers involved until both investigations are finished, Gibbs said.   

Although larger cities, such as Tulsa and Oklahoma City, almost immediately release the names of officers

involved in shootings, Gibbs said it's SPD Chief Ryan McCaghren’s “position and practice” to not release the

officers’ names until OSBI’s investigation and SPD’s investigation are complete.  

Jessica Brown, OSBI’s public information officer, said Monday she doesn't have a time frame for the completion of

OSBI’s investigation, but Gibbs said he expected to start SPD’s administrative investigation this week.  
 
 


Man fatally shot by Montgomery Co. deputies - Roanoke Times, The
(VA) - August 27, 2018 - page 2C
August 27, 2018 | Roanoke Times, The (VA) | Tonia Moxley tonia.moxley@roanoke.com 381-1675 | Page 2C

Virginia State Police have released the identity of a man shot and killed by sheriff's deputies in
Montgomery County on Saturday.

T aylor K.E. T incher, 18, was fatally shot Saturday morning after deputies responded to reports
T aylor K.E. T incher
of a disturbance. His residency was not immediately available.

T he state police Bureau of Criminal Investigation out of the Salem office is investigating the
incident at the request of Montgomery County Sheriff Hank Partin.

Police were called to the 900 block of Walton Road in the county at 7:40 a.m. for a report of a
disturbed person, according to state police news releases.

Once inside the residence, deputies encountered T incher, who had a handgun, according to the
release.

"Despite the deputies' repeated commands to put down the firearm, Tincher refused and began
advancing towards the deputies in a threatening manner. T he deputies fired at T incher," the
release stated.

T incher was transported to Carilion New River Valley Medical Center, where he died, according to
the release. His remains were sent to the medical examiner in Roanoke for autopsy.

No deputies were injured in the incident, according to the release.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Roanoke Times

 
Prosecutor: Deputies won't face charges in fatal - Free Lance-Star, The
(Fredericksburg, VA) - November 15, 2018 - page 2A
November 15, 2018 | Free Lance-Star, The (Fredericksburg, VA) | Page 2A

CHRIST IANSBURG-A special prosecutor says two sheriff's deputies won't face charges in the fatal
shooting of an 18-year-old man who approached them with a gun and ignored commands to
disarm.

Franklin County Commonwealth's Attorney Allen Dudley Jr., who was serving as a special
prosecutor in the case, said in a release Wednesday that Taylor K.E. T incher
Montgomery County sheriff's deputies in a position where they believed that they or others were in
imminent danger of death or serious injury.

T aylor K.E. Tincher put the

Officials said at the time of the Aug. 25 shooting that deputies responding to a 911 call about a
"disturbed individual" at a Christiansburg-area home encountered Tincher armed with a handgun.
T hey said he was shot when he refused repeated commands to put the gun down.

© Copyrig ht 2018, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg , VA

 

Report of suicidal man leads to shooting - Search - Roanoke Times, The
(VA) - August 31, 2018 - page 1B
August 31, 2018 | Roanoke Times, The (VA) | Mike Gangloff mike.gangloff@roanoke.com 381-1669 | Page 1B

CHRIST IANSBURG - Sheriff's deputies who shot and killed a Montgomery County 18-year-old
Saturday had come to his house because of a report of an attempted suicide, according to a
search warrant.

Virginia State Police investigators later collected firearms and other items from the man's
residence, the search warrant said.

Filed in Montgomery County Circuit Court, the search warrant outlined how Saturday's encounter
between Taylor K.E. T incher

T aylor K.E. Tincher and county sheriff's deputies began.

Officers were called to the 900 block of Walton Road, in the Walton section of the county west of
Christiansburg, at about 7:40 a.m., the search warrant said. A caller had told an emergency
dispatcher that a man had tried to kill himself using carbon monoxide from a vehicle exhaust, the
search warrant said.

T he warrant offered less description of what officers found, saying only, "While officers were on-
scene, a firearm was discharged. T he suicidal subject received injuries causing death."

On Saturday and Sunday, police statements said that the county deputies found Tincher in his
house with a handgun. T hey told him repeatedly to put it down but he instead "began advancing
towards the deputies in a threatening manner," a news release said.

T he deputies shot T incher, then called emergency medical workers who took him to Carilion New
River Valley Medical Center. He died there, according to a news release last weekend. No deputies
were hurt, news releases said.

County Sheriff Hank Partin immediately asked state police to investigate.

T he search warrant said that state police removed three pistols and a rifle from the Walton Road
property. Other items seized included three .223-caliber shell casings, a .40-caliber shell casing, two
bullets, a bullet fragment, clothing, a "notebook with assorted writings," an earring and a Fitbit
watch, and handcuffs, the search warrant said.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Roanoke Times

 
Police ID 18-year-old fatally shot by deputies in - Associated Press State
Wire: Virginia (VA) - August 26, 2018
August 26, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Virginia (VA)

CHRIST IANSBURG, Va. (AP) — Virginia State Police have identified the 18-year-old who was fatally
shot after deputies said he approached them with a gun in a "threatening manner."

State police spokeswoman Corinne Geller said in a statement Sunday night that an investigation
into the shooting of Taylor K.E. T incher

T aylor K.E. Tincher is ongoing.

T he Montgomery County Sheriff's Office has said deputies responded to a 911 call about a
"disturbed individual" at a home in the Christiansburg area Saturday morning.

Geller says the deputies encountered Tincher inside, armed with a handgun. She says despite
repeated commands to put the gun down, Tincher refused and began advancing "in a threatening
manner." T he deputies fired at him.

T incher was pronounced dead at a hospital. A medical examiner will conduct an autopsy.

T he deputies involved haven't been identified.

Attempts to reach relatives of T incher's were not immediately successful.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

County posecutors clear Gilbert police in a fatal - Associated Press:
Phoenix Metro Area (AZ) - July 2, 2018
July 2, 2018 | Associated Press: Phoenix Metro Area (AZ)

GILBERT , Ariz. (AP) — Maricopa County prosecutors have cleared Gilbert police in the fatal
shooting of an armed man outside his home in February.

Police officials announced Monday that the county Attorney's Office reviewed the case and
concluded officers "did not commit any act which warrants criminal prosecution."

According to police, 37-year-old Joshua Kinnard
fatally shot.

Joshua Kinnard pointed a rifle at officers on Feb. 26 and was

Kinnard was a detention officer with the county Sheriff's Office for six years and assigned to
inmate medical services.

He was on approved medical leave at the time of the shooting.

Police say officers went to the home because a caller said Kinnard was acting erratically.

Officers spent about 25 minutes trying to calm Kinnard, but they say he refused help and got a rifle
from his truck.

Copyrig ht 2018 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

 
Gilbert police: Officers fatally shot armed man - Associated Press State
Wire: Arizona (AZ) - February 27, 2018
February 27, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Arizona (AZ)

GILBERT , Ariz. (AP) — An armed man fatally shot by Gilbert police after he allegedly threatened
them during an encounter outside his home was a detention officer with the Maricopa County
Sheriff's Office.

Sheriff's officials say Joshua Kinnard
inmate medical services.

Joshua Kinnard had been with MCSO for six years and was assigned to

T he 37-year-old Kinnard was on approved medical leave at the time of Monday night's shooting.

Gilbert police say officers went to the home because a caller said Kinnard wasn't feeling well and
was acting erratically.

Police say officers spent about 20 minutes trying to calm Kinnard and get him some assistance but
Kinnard refused aid.

T he officers then left the home and were talking with another resident in front of the house when
Kinnard got a gun and reportedly threatened the officers.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
The Maricopa County Attorney's Office cleared two Gilbert police officers of criminal wrongdoing in connection

with the fatal shooting of a 37-year-old man who pointed a rifle at the officers, according to a statement from town

police Monday. 

Officers Troy Vernon and Christoph Putton fatally shot Joshua Kinnard in February outside his house, after the

man grabbed a rifle from his truck and pointed it at the officers, police said in the statement. 

Police were called to a home in the 3900 block of East Encinas Avenue Feb. 26 on reports of a man acting

erratically, police said. For about 25 minutes, officers spoke with Kinnard, a detention officer with the Maricopa

County Sheriff's Office who had been on medical leave. 

Sheriff's officials previously confirmed Kinnard was a detention officer assigned to Inmate Medical Services and

had worked there for six years. 

in a backyard pool. 

Body camera footage released by the department on Monday showed officers initially making contact with Kinnard

Kinnard was combative with officers and repeatedly told them to leave the home, the footage showed. 

His fiancee, identified later as Maggie Jones, pleaded with Kinnard to get help and told officers Kinnard had taken

some pills earlier that day. 

Kinnard repeatedly declined to speak with the officers. 

Jones gathered items for her children, the footage showed, and eventually left the home with the two officers,

leaving only Kinnard remaining inside. 

Jones was speaking with Vernon when Kinnard came out of the home and retrieved the rifle, according to police. 

Kinnard ignored orders to drop the gun, and both Vernon and Putton fired several shots, footage showed. 

About half a dozen shots were fired, the footage showed. 

Footage then shows an unresponsive Kinnard lying on the ground. 

Jones is heard yelling for the officers to help her fiance and describing blood coming from Kinnard's head. 

Vernon was the first officer to begin administering CPR, with Putton relieving him after a few minutes and

continuing life-saving efforts, footage showed. 

The investigation began immediately, with officers working to search the area and get Jones, her children and a

friend present at the time of the shooting to a secure location. 

"I was supposed to marry that man," Jones is heard telling an officer at one point in the footage. "We were

supposed to be a family. I don't know how I'm going to survive this. 

"I've been through so much. I don't know how I'm going to survive." 

Footage showed Jones crying and telling the officer that she was scared of being a single mother to her young

children. 

She told the officer that she had seen bullets strike his head. 

"Why is God doing this to me? Why did God make me see that?" she asked at one point. 

According to a report released by Gilbert police, Jones told officers Kinnard texted her the night before the

shooting that he would kill himself if she didn't come home. 

When she called police, she said Kinnard had taken some pills and jumped into the pool, the police report said. 

Kinnard denied to responding officers that he threatened to kill himself or that taking pills and jumping into the

pool was a suicide attempt. 

In her interview with police, Jones told officers that Kinnard had been under a lot of stress and had expressed that

he was depressed and angry on at least one occasion, according to the police report. Part of the stress, according

to Jones, came from the type of work he did as a detention officer, the report said. 

She told police they met on a dating site four years ago and had a two-year-old daughter together. The couple lived

together at a home Kinnard had bought four months earlier with benefits he received from the Department of

Jones also said Kinnard had been a Marine for four and a half years, but left the military 13 years before, the report

Company / organization:

Name: Department of Veterans Affairs; NAICS: 923140

Publication title:

Arizona Republic; Phoenix, Ariz.

Veterans Affairs, the police report says. 

said. 

CREDIT: Uriel J. Garcia; BrieAnna J. Frank 
 
 


 
A man fatally shot by Gilbert police outside his home Monday night was identified as a Maricopa County Sheriff's

Office detention officer, officials said. 

Police identified the man as 37-year-old Joshua Kinnard. 

Sheriff's officials confirmed Kinnard was a detention officer assigned to inmate medical services and was on

medical leave at the time of the shooting. MCSO deferred to Gilbert police for further comment. 

Kinnard was the fifth person to be shot dead by law enforcement in Maricopa County in 2018. 

Gilbert police said in a statement Tuesday morning that officers were called to a residence in Carol Rae Ranch,

near Recker and Guadalupe roads, at about 8 p.m. Monday on reports that a man was not feeling well and was

Officers spent about 20 minutes trying to calm him down inside the residence, but Kinnard refused help, the police

As officers exited the home to speak to another resident in front of the house, Kinnard retrieved a weapon and

began threatening police, according to the statement. 

Police said two Gilbert officers, identified only as Officers Putton and Vernon, fired their weapons at Kinnard and

shot him in self-defense. Police declined to release the officers' first names. 

Kinnard was pronounced dead at the scene. 

Police investigate a shooting outside a home in Gilbert. 

acting erratically. 

statement said. 

CAPTION:  

Town of Gilbert 
 
 


School identifies Minnesota teen fatally shot by - Associated Press State
Wire: Minnesota (MN) - July 14, 2018
July 14, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN)

CHANHASSEN, Minn. (AP) — A high school principal has identified a 16-year-old student fatally
shot by sheriff's deputies in suburban Minneapolis.

Minnetonka High School Principal Jeff Erickson identified Archer Amorosi
families and staff on Saturday.

Archer Amorosi in a letter to students,

Authorities say Amorosi was suicidal and threatening his mother with knives and a baseball bat.
Carver County sheriff's deputies were called to a home in Chanhassen around 10 a.m. Friday after
the teen's mother called 911.

Authorities say deputies used a stun gun on the teen and, at one point, two deputies fired their
guns, hitting him.

Amorosi died at the scene. One deputy was treated for injuries that were not life-threatening.

T he principal says Amorosi was "talented in and out of the classroom." He says the teen excelled in
lacrosse and football.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Autopsy: Minnesota teen died of multiple gunshot - Associated Press:
US News Online - July 15, 2018
July 15, 2018 | Associated Press: US News Online

CHANHASSEN, Minn. (AP) — An autopsy determined that a 16-year-old student fatally shot by
sheriff's deputies in suburban Minneapolis died from multiple gunshot wounds.

Archer Amorosi, who was
T he Midwest Medical Examiner's Office released the results Sunday on Archer Amorosi
killed Friday morning outside a home in Chanhassen. T he release contained no further information.

Carver County sheriff's deputies were called to the home by the teen's mother, who reported that
he was suicidal and threatening her with knives and a baseball bat. Authorities say deputies used a
stun gun on the teen and, at one point, two deputies fired their guns, hitting him.

Minnetonka High School Principal Jeff Erickson said in a letter to students, families and staff on
Saturday that Amorosi was "talented in and out of the classroom."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Associated Press All Rights Reserved

 
Father of teen killed by deputies wants city - Associated Press State
Wire: Minnesota (MN) - August 15, 2018
August 15, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN)

CHANHASSEN, Minn. (AP) — T he father of a teenager shot and killed by deputies in Chanhassen is
calling for a broad community discussion on how officers handle calls involving mental illness.

Archer Amorosi was killed by Carver County sheriff's deputies July 13 outside his

Sixteen-year-old Archer Amorosi
Chanhassen home. Amorosi's mother had called for help saying her son was suicidal and
threatening her with knives and a baseball bat.

Amorosi's father, Don Amorosi, has asked the Chanhassen City Council to investigate the
shooting. Minnesota Public Radio News reports Amorosi says he wants a council committee to
explore protocols and training and how the situation might have been handled differently.

T he Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is investigating the shooting.

___

Information from: Minnesota Public Radio News, http://www.mprnews.org

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Father of teen killed by police not surprised by - Associated Press State
Wire: Minnesota (MN) - October 12, 2018
October 12, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN)

CHANHASSEN, Minn. (AP) — T he father of a Minnesota teenager fatally shot by police is not
surprised the two officers involved won't be charged.

Carver County Attorney Mark Metz announced Thursday that the officers who killed 16-year-old
Archer Amorosi
Archer Amorosi in Chanhassen in July had no choice because he was charging at them with a
hatchet and a BB gun.

Don Amorosi tells KARE-T V that while the prosecutor's decision was expected, he was surprised
that Metz didn't share the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension's investigative report.

Amorosi says he can't understand why repeated calls to a crisis center and an earlier visit by
sheriff's deputies didn't prevent the confrontation that ended with his son's death.

Amorosi says his lawyers are considering whether to file a civil lawsuit.

Chanhassen is 20 miles (32 kilometers) southwest of Minneapolis.

___

Information from: KARE-T V, http://www.kare11.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Official cause of death released in July 13 - Eden Prairie News (MN) -
July 16, 2018
July 16, 2018 | Eden Prairie News (MN) | Mark Olson

T he Midwest Medical Examiner released its report regarding the 16-year-old Chanhassen boy who
died following an officer-involved shooting Friday morning.

According to the medical examiner, the name of the deceased teen, which had not been officially
Archer Amorosi.
released, was Archer Amorosi

Amorosi died at 10:35 a.m. Friday, July 13 at an Oriole Lane home in Chanhassen. "T he cause of
death is multiple gunshot wounds. T he manner is homicide," stated the release, which noted that
Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is also investigating.

"No other information will be released regarding this case and death investigation by the Midwest
Medical Examiner's Office."

T he teen's mother called authorities and said her son was suicidal and was threatening her with
knives and a baseball bat at 10 a.m. at a home, according to a Bureau of Criminal Apprehension
press release.

"Deputies arrived and encountered a 16-year-old male and deployed a T aser. At one point during
the encounter, two Carver County deputies fired their weapons, striking the individual. He was
pronounced deceased at the scene."

SCHOOL RESPONSE

Minnetonka High School Principal Jeff Erickson sent a Saturday morning note to parents and
students regarding Amorosi, an incoming junior at the school.

"T his situation is heartbreaking and I want to extend my thoughts and prayers to Archer's parents
and family, his friends, and the entire Minnetonka High School community. I know this situation is
particularly devastating to those of you who knew Archer well," Erickson stated.

"Archer was talented – in and out of the classroom – and greatly enjoyed representing MHS in
athletic competition. Archer excelled in lacrosse and football – most notably this spring as lacrosse
was in the run for the State championship. He had a strong group of friends and highly valued
those relationships. He will be deeply missed."

Erickson encouraged parents to check in with their children to see how they are doing.
"Minnetonka Schools' Student Support Website also lists crisis hotlines for immediate support and
resources for coping with grief," he noted. Beginning Monday, counselors and support staff were
available at Minnetonka High School, if students wanted to talk about Amorosi's death.

He also asked that "Students, please look out for each other and take care of yourself. It is
important to share how you are feeling with a friend or caring adult."

"T onka, we are a strong community. We all draw support and strength from our community, not
only during the moments of joy, but during these times of loss. We need to use this strength to
look after and care for each other."

Copyrig ht, 2018, Eden Prairie News (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 
The Spoonful: Officer-involved shooting, canceled - Eden Prairie News
(MN) - July 22, 2018
July 22, 2018 | Eden Prairie News (MN) | Maggie Stanwood

T he Spoonful brings you a roundup of the biggest news in the southwest metro region each week.

Archer Amorosi 
Community grieves for Archer Amorosi

A 16-year-old Minnetonka High School student died July 13 following a confrontation with the
Carver County Sheriff's Office. Archer Amorosi
called authorities on July 13 and said her son was suicidal, and threatening her with knives and a
baseball bat. Officers used a Taser on the teen and at one point, two deputies fired their weapons
at him. He was pronounced dead at the scene. T he Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is
investigating the incident.

Archer Amorosi would have been a junior in the fall. His mother

New neighbors wage legal battle over barking at Bluff High Kennels in Savage

A 40-year-old dog boarding business in Savage is tangled in a legal debate with neighbors
regarding the sound of dogs barking coming from the property. Two homeowners in the T rout
Run Preserve residential development have asked the city to revoke a permit for Bluff High
Kennels that allows the kennel to operate in a residential zone. T he homeowners said the barking
has caused health issues. A citation was issued to kennel owners by the city this month for being in
violation of the residential habitual barking code. After five citations, the kennel could shut down.

Return to sender: Luce tangles over emails

T he Scott County Attorney's Office is reviewing whether criminal charges are warranted against
Shakopee City Councilor Mike Luce for allegedly not turning over city-related emails from a
personal email account. Luce was asked for these emails after separate data requests from a Star
T ribune reporter and a Shakopee lawyer. Luce told the Shakopee Valley News that the emails do
not exist, but past data requests reveal Luce has used his personal email account for city-related
business. If a city councilor sends or receives emails pertaining to city business from their person
email account, those emails are considered public under Minnesota law.

Gun-opposition rally in Excelsior canceled

A parade and rally to oppose gun violence planned for Aug. 18 in Excelsior has been canceled. T he
city council was concerned with the size of the crowd, as former presidential candidate Bernie
Sanders, as well as other activists including students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School
in Parkland, Florida, had been slated to attend. T he organizing group, Protect Minnesota, is
planning another rally with a prospective date in October. T he event will be called the Westside
March and Rally Against Gun Violence.

Shakopee nonprofit hosts clinics for amputees to try fitness prosthetics

A Shakopee-based nonprofit called Wiggle Your Toes held a fitness clinic last week for people who
have lost lower limbs in conjunction with Ottobock, a leading company in prosthetic limb
technology. Many of the attendees had lost a limb in the past year and were able to try out
different prosthetic technologies. Reporter Amanda McKnight said everyone at the event
expressed happiness knowing their mobility possibilities are endless.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Eden Prairie News (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 
Father’s pain drives his passion - Since his son - Star Tribune:
Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) - June 15, 2019 - page 01B
June 15, 2019 | Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) | LIZ SAWYER; STAFF WRITER | Page 01B

An alarm sounds at 10:35 a.m., snapping Don Amorosi’s mind back to what he lost.

T he weekly cellphone ping marks his son’s official time of death, the moment deputies killed 16-
Archer Amorosi.
year-old Archer Amorosi

It all happened so quickly. T he suicidal teen burst through the front door of his Chanhassen home
last July brandishing a hatchet and a handgun-style BB gun, charging toward officers. Two officers
opened fire as his horrified parents stood nearby.

Nearly a year has passed since the shooting, but Don Amorosi can’t stop fixating on the details. On
how he thinks it could have ended differently.

Now Amorosi is fighting for meaningful reforms in how police respond to mental health calls. T he
mission has brought him before elected bodies — from the Chanhassen City Council to the
Legislature — to plead for additional training and resources to help teens in crisis.

He relentlessly pressures local politicians and school administrators, who sometimes try to placate
him with what he calls “empty commitments” to explore the issue. But he says he won’t stop trying
to change the stigma around a disease that doesn’t discriminate.

Since Archer, eight Minnesotans have died at the hands of police while in a mental health crisis.

“In each of those situations, the families would have been better off if the officers hadn’t shown up
at all,” Amorosi said from his Wayzata home. “As parents, we cannot second-guess whether to call
911.”

Of 183 fatal police shootings across Minnesota since 2000, at least 75 of those shot had a history
of mental illness or were in the throes of a mental health crisis at the time of the shooting,
according to a recent Star Tribune analysis. In response, a handful of agencies have piloted
programs that pair officers with mental health specialists on emergency calls.

Advocates support the expansion of those measures but say they have limitations.

“If there is a weapon involved, [crisis teams] are not equipped to go in. T hat’s not their training,”
said Sue Abderholden, executive director of the state’s National Alliance on Mental Illness.

Deadly force by Minnesota law enforcement results in approximately 12 to 15 civilian deaths each
year. T he trend has prompted the state Department of Health to conduct a homicide review
chronicling all fatal police encounters since 2017. Researchers plan to perform case studies on the

deceased to determine what may have led up to the confrontation — then recommend changes
to prevent future tragedies.

“We’re not going in assigning blame,” said Mark Kinde, from MDH’s violence and injury prevention
unit. “We’re committed to an honest and transparent look at the data, asking ... what went wrong?”

Unlike an investigation by the state Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, which focuses on whether an
officer’s use of force was justified, the MDH one would take a more holistic approach, scouring
autopsy results, 911 transcripts, psychological records and even school disciplinary files to
determine any variables the system may have missed. Kinde hopes the findings will ultimately
improve social service safety nets statewide.

In Archer’s case, it may shed light on how a talented teenage athlete wound up in a fatal standoff
with Carver County sheriff’s deputies.

“My son was a popular, bright, kind young man with many gifts,” Amorosi told state lawmakers in
February. “I can’t bring him back — but God willing, I can be a voice that saves other equally
precious lives.”

A fight for influence

Sometimes he struggles to believe it.

Every so often, Amorosi receives a welcome reminder: “It’s not your fault,” an uncle texts him.

In the weeks before the shooting, Archer had stopped taking his medication for anxiety,
depression and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. “He thought it was a sign of weakness,”
Amorosi said. “T ry and convince a football player — who was told he needs to gain 20 pounds by
next season — that he has to take a drug that causes loss of appetite.”

T he incoming junior at Minnetonka High School also struggled with anger issues and had become
increasingly hostile to authority, relatives said. But that was a side he allowed only a select few to
see.

T o most, Archer was a charming young man with long blond hair and a bright smile. Football
parents called him “Hollywood,” a nod to his chiseled features. He planned to try out for varsity
quarterback this fall.

Amorosi fears his son was part of a generation faced with mounting pressures to perform —
academically, athletically and socially — without enough emphasis on simply being happy.

“Collectively, we don’t get it,” he told parents and mental health professionals during a March
presentation at the Blake School. “T hey have problems that we never had.”

Amorosi, a pharmacy services executive, expressed deep concern about the results of a 2016
student survey. Statewide results showed nearly one-fifth of all Minnesota 11th-graders had
seriously considered suicide. Roughly the same number reported feeling down, depressed or

hopeless more than half of the days in the past two weeks.

T he solution, he said, was to push for more mental health services inside schools. Days earlier, he’d
trekked to the State Capitol to testify in favor of expanding school-linked mental health. T he bill
went on to pass.

Amorosi also scheduled meetings with Minnetonka school administrators, delivering an ever-
growing list of demands he believes will improve student culture and reduce stigma. T he district
approved only one: a tree planted on school grounds in memoriam of Archer.

Superintendent Dennis Peterson rejected his request to perform a case study on Archer’s journey
through the school system to determine whether there were any missed opportunities for early
intervention, saying it would only create further confrontation between the Amorosi family and
school officials.

“We don’t see anything productive about [it],” Peterson said.

Amorosi’s persistence has made himself a nuisance in some corners, but a welcome crusader in
others.

Michelle Gross, president of the watchdog group Communities United Against Police Brutality, said
Amorosi uses his position of privilege to connect with decisionmakers in a way that forces them to
listen. He, along with the affluent south Minneapolis neighbors of police shooting victim Justine
Ruszczyk Damond, has driven increased donations to the group’s Stolen Lives Fund.

“It wakes up more people that look like them and are in their same economic strata,” Gross said.
“T his could really happen to anybody.”

Activist groups like Black Lives Matter and Justice for Justine have invited him to speak at their
rallies. T he day after ex-MPD officer Mohamed Noor was convicted of third-degree murder in
Damond’s death, Amorosi joined protesters on the steps of the Hennepin County Government
Center to lambaste law enforcement and the BCA. He accused police agencies of fostering a
culture of “silence, self-preservation and deceit.”

Andy Skoogman, executive director of the Minnesota Chiefs of Police Association, said local
departments owe their communities transparency about how officers are trained and the policies
that guide their actions during difficult calls.

“We must address these fears together if we want to change these incredibly tragic outcomes and
restore the public’s trust,” he said.

Many ways to remember

Minnetonka High School football and lacrosse games bring Amorosi solace. It’s one place he
doesn’t have to talk about the shooting. One place where parents greet him with a warm smile and
big hug.

T his month, Archer would have played in the boys’ state lacrosse tournament. Instead, his friends
are wearing A12 stickers on their helmets to honor their fallen teammate.

Many of those boys will play in the inaugural Northern Lights Lacrosse Tournament in Shorewood
this August, a fundraiser Amorosi developed through his new nonprofit, Archer Aim. Some festival
proceeds will go to a scholarship fund for two Minnetonka High School graduates who have
overcome adversity related to mental illness.

Frequent projects are his way of trying to cope, said Amorosi’s fiancée, Sara Ratner. “Some people
crawl into a hole and become paralyzed. Not Don.”

Soon he’ll be forced to clean out Archer’s bedroom, where he sometimes sleeps to feel closer to
his son. For months, it’s remained a shrine to the teenage boy who collected nutcrackers, sports
memorabilia and T om Brady quotes.

But now Amorosi and Ratner plan to sell the home and, hopefully, escape some painful reminders.

Every Friday, Amorosi picks up flowers and heads to the cemetery. He plops down beside the patch
of grass at Archer’s grave overlooking Lake Minnetonka. At 10:35 a.m., his cellphone vibrates with
the ringtone “I’ll Be Missing You” by Puff Daddy.

He lets it play.

T he phone still holds a dozen angry voice mails Archer left in his final days. Amorosi can’t bear to
listen, but he can’t bring himself to delete them. He’ll leave them there, just in case he needs to
hear his son’s voice again.

“I failed him down here,” he said, choking up. “I can’t fail him up there.”

Liz Sawyer • 612-673-4648

Copyrig ht 2019 Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities

 
Records: Deputy in Minnesota shooting disciplined - Associated Press
State Wire: Minnesota (MN) - July 19, 2018
July 19, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN)

CHASKA, Minn. (AP) — Personnel records show a sheriff's deputy involved in the fatal shooting of
a suicidal Minnesota teenager has been disciplined four times, but has also received seven
performance awards.

Documents released Wednesday don't detail what led to the three suspensions and one written
reprimand against Carver County Cpl. Jacob Hodge. But they list unpaid suspensions of 40 hours in
2010 and 84 hours in 2011.

Chief Deputy Jason Kamerud on Thursday declined to elaborate.

Investigators say 16-year-old Archer Amorosi
and a BB pistol. After a stun gun failed to stop him, Hodge and another deputy opened fire.

Archer Amorosi ran from his house last Friday holding a hatchet

Hodge's awards include three for actions involving suicidal or mentally ill individuals. T he other
deputies involved have won awards but had no disciplinary actions.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Funeral service for Archer Amorosi on July 18 - Chaska Herald (MN) -
July 17, 2018
July 17, 2018 | Chaska Herald (MN) | Mark Olson

T he funeral service for Archer Amorosi
Church, at 3121 Westwood Drive, Chanhassen.

Archer Amorosi is 11 a.m., Wednesday, July 18 at Westwood Community

Visitation is 5-7 p.m. T uesday, July 17 at the same location.

"Archer had a magnetic personality and never hesitated to help someone who he knew was
struggling," states his obituary in the Star T ribune.

"Grief is complex, and we all handle it differently. It can help for students to be with the people who
love them during this difficult time. T herefore, if your child plans to attend the visitation or funeral, I
recommend that a parent or caring adult accompany them," stated Principal Jeff Erickson in a letter
to the Minnetonka High School community. "It has been a sad and simply heartbreaking few days
for our community. Archer was loved by many and will be missed."

"Please continue to hold Archer's family and friends in your thoughts and prayers," stated Erickson.

Erickson referred families to the high school website for resources to help with grief counseling.

Amorosi, 16, died following an officer-involved shooting in Chanhassen on Friday, July 13.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Chaska Herald (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 
No charges in teenager’s death - Archer Amorosi - Star Tribune:
Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) - October 12, 2018 - page 01B
October 12, 2018 | Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) | LIZ SAWYER; STAFF WRITER | Page 01B

In the midst of a mental health crisis, 16-year-old Archer Amorosi
of his Chanhassen home brandishing a hatchet and a handgun-style BB gun — then headed
straight for police officers waiting on the front lawn.

Archer Amorosi burst through the front door

In the 90 seconds that followed, authorities say the Chanhassen teen refused to drop the weapons
and officers fatally shot him. T he FBI-trained crisis negotiator on the scene never had a chance to
talk him down.

“It was too late,” Carver County Attorney Mark Metz said Thursday after ruling the July 13 shooting
justified and declining to file criminal charges against the officers involved, who have since returned
to duty. “T hey had no way of knowing it would escalate that quickly.”

Soon after their son’s death, Amorosi’s family raised questions about how police handle calls
involving mental illness and demanded reforms.

“No parent should have to hesitate to call law enforcement to help their child during a mental
health crisis because of fear that an officer may kill their son or daughter,” said an Amorosi family
statement released through their attorney, Paul Dworak.

Of 169 fatal police shootings across Minnesota since 2000, 71 of those shot had a history of
mental illness or were in the throes of a mental health crisis at the time of the shooting, according
to a recent Star Tribune analysis. In response, some Minnesota police departments have tasked
officers or others specially trained in mental health issues to respond to emergency calls.

An investigation by the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension found that the situation quickly
escalated into chaos after Kara Amorosi called 911 to report that her son was suicidal and carrying
around knives and a baseball bat.

According to the 911 transcript, Kara said Archer was being violent and destructive.

“He’s going to do something bad,” she told the dispatcher, adding that he had locked her in the
garage. “He’s not well right now. I’m worried for him.”

Carver County Deputy Travis Larson and Cpl. Jacob Hodge, the first at the scene, located Amorosi
pacing shirtless inside the house holding what appeared to be a gun.

Over the course of about 15 minutes, Amorosi alternated between verbally threatening deputies
and aiming the firearm at them, the BCA said. Officers tried to subdue him with a Taser and pepper
spray, but both were ineffective.

At one point, he fled the house waving the gun and hatchet above his head. He fell to the ground
after being shot for a second time with a T aser, the report said, but quickly got back up and ran
toward Hodge yelling, “I’m gonna kill you.”

“Unfortunately, once Archer charged at Corporal Hodge in ‘a full sprint’ with the hatchet, less than
lethal force was no longer a plausible option,” said Metz, who hired an independent use-of-force
expert to help review the evidence. “T heir actions are reasonable under the law.”

Metz publicly announced his decision Thursday after meeting with Amorosi’s parents at his office.

Although Carver County deputies did not activate their body camera footage, South Minnetonka
police body cameras recorded audio and video of the incident, including the final moments.

“Drop it, drop it, stop, get your hands in the air, drop it, drop it!” multiple deputies can be heard
yelling in the audio, according to Metz’s report.

“Shoot! Shoot!” Amorosi can be heard saying in response. One minute later, both deputies opened
fire.

Deputy Greg Gowan, an FBI-trained negotiator, watched the episode unfold from a distance,
unable to get close enough to communicate with Amorosi. He’d hoped the teen would retreat into
the house so they could try to talk him down via phone. “But with him loose in the neighborhood
with a gun in his hand … there was never an opportunity to do anything,” he later told investigators.

Amorosi was pronounced dead just 25 minutes after texting his parents and three sisters:
“Goodbye I love you all.”

“I never, ever should have called 911,” Kara Amorosi recently told the Star T ribune, wiping away
tears. “I will regret that every day for the rest of my life.”

T he family’s statement says, “T he report omits crucial ... information while emphasizing irrelevant
material. [It] does not state whether Archer was shot in the back or the front. ... Where Archer was
shot is certainly more germane to a use-of-force analysis than Archer’s text messages ... which
the deputies had no knowledge of at the time they decided to use deadly force.”

T he day before the fatal encounter, Don Amorosi called 911 to report that his son had become
enraged after losing his car privileges. He also told the dispatcher that his son had not taken his
medication for depression and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.

He warned dispatchers that Archer was hostile to law enforcement, but assured them that he had
no access to firearms on the property other than an airsoft pellet gun.

Don had first called a mental health crisis center, but was told that the situation did not meet its
requirements for a medical transport and advised to call police. Don had wanted first responders
to de-escalate the situation and worried that an active police response might have the opposite
effect.

“I fear that SWAT  people are gonna go in and kick the door down and shoot him,” he told the
dispatcher. Less than 24 hours later, a version of that scenario played out on the family’s front
lawn.

Don Amorosi is certain it could have turned out differently. “If they had slowed down and brought
[mental health] professionals, no one would be dead,” he said in a recent interview. “He was the
greatest gift I ever had.”

T he family plans to review the entire BCA investigative file before deciding whether to pursue a civil
suit.

Liz Sawyer • 612-673-4648

Copyrig ht 2018 Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities

 
Chanhassen - Deputies ID'd in teen's fatal - St. Paul Pioneer Press (MN) -
July 18, 2018 - page A2
July 18, 2018 | St. Paul Pioneer Press (MN) | Kristi Belcamino kbelcamino@pioneerpress.com | Page A2

Authorities on Tuesday released the names of the Carver County sheriff's deputies involved in
fatally shooting a 16-year-old Chanhassen boy Friday along with details that revealed the teen ran
at the deputies with a hatchet and handgun-style BB gun.

According to the Minnesota Department of Public Safety's Bureau of Criminal Apprehension,
Carver County sheriff's Cpl. Jacob Hodge, Cpl. Josh Baker and deputy Travis Larson responded to a
911 call Friday morning in the 6400 block of Oriole Avenue, just south of Minnesota 7.

A woman had called reporting that her son, now identified as 16-year-old Archer Amorosi
suicidal and threatening her with knives and a baseball bat.

Archer Amorosi, was

According to the BCA, the preliminary investigation indicates the following:

When deputies arrived, they ordered Amorosi to come out of the house, but he refused.

Deputies fired a Taser stun gun and pepper spray through a window, but they were "ineffective."
T he deputies were outside when Amorsi ran out of the front door holding a hatchet and what
appeared to be a handgun.

Deputies "continued verbal commands and again deployed a T aser, but it was ineffective,"
according to the BCA.

Hodge and Larson then fired their guns. Amorosi was shot multiple times and died at the scene.

A hatchet and a handgun-style BB gun was found near his body, according to the BCA.

Hodge, who has been with the sheriff's office for 18 years, and Larson, who has been on the force
for two years, are both on standard administrative leave.

Baker, who discharged his Taser during the incident, has been with the sheriff's office for 11 years.

Larson was treated and released from the Chaska hospital for unspecified injuries he received
during the incident.

T he Midwest Medical Examiner's Office on Sunday said that Amorosi died of multiple gunshot
wounds.

Portions of the incident were caught by officer body cameras and squad car cameras. T he BCA
investigation is continuing and all findings will be turned over to the Carver County attorney's office

for review.

Amorosi would have been a junior at Minnetonka High School, where played football and lacrosse.

According to the Associated Press, the Star Tribune reported this week that Amorosi's father had
called 911 on Thursday to report his son had become enraged over losing his car privileges. T he
father told a dispatcher his son had not taken his medication for depression.

Amorosi's funeral will be held Wednesday morning.

Copyrig ht 2018 Saint Paul Pioneer Press

 
Officers who killed suicidal teen won't be charged - Associated Press
State Wire: Minnesota (MN) - October 11, 2018
October 11, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN)

CHASKA, Minn. (AP) — Prosecutors have decided against any charges for two law enforcement
officers who fatally shot a suicidal Minnesota teenager.

T he Carver County Attorney's Office said Thursday the officers' use of deadly force was justified in
the case. Sixteen-year-old Archer Amorosi
Chanhassen on July 13. Authorities say the teen was holding a hatchet and a BB pistol.

Archer Amorosi was shot and killed after running from his house in

After stun gun failed to stop him, Carver County Sheriff's Corporal Jake Hodge and Deputy T ravis
Larson opened fire, killing Amorosi. His mother called officers to her house, saying her son was
suicidal and was threatening her with knives and a baseball bat.

T he Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension investigated the shooting and forwarded its
findings to the state attorney.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Minnesota officers who killed suicidal teen won't - Associated Press
State Wire: Minnesota (MN) - October 11, 2018
October 11, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN)

CHASKA, Minn. (AP) — Prosecutors say they won't charge two sheriff's officials who fatally shot a
suicidal Minnesota teenager.

T he Carver County Attorney's Office said Thursday that the officers' use of deadly force was
justified.

Archer Amorosi was shot and killed after running from his house in Chanhassen

Sixteen-year-old Archer Amorosi
on July 13. His mother had dialed 911, saying her son was suicidal and threatening her with knives
and a baseball bat.

Authorities say the teen was holding a hatchet and a BB pistol.

After firing a stun gun failed to stop him, Carver County Sheriff's Corporal Jake Hodge and Deputy
T ravis Larson opened fire. An autopsy found Amorosi died of multiple gunshot wounds.

T he Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension investigated the shooting and forwarded its
findings to the state attorney.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Father of slain student addresses City Council a - Chanhassen Villager
(MN) - September 13, 2018
September 13, 2018 | Chanhassen Villager (MN) | Unsie Zuege uzuege@swpub.com

Archer Amorosi, the 16-year-old teen who died following a July 13
Don Amorosi, the father of Archer Amorosi
shooting by Carver County Sheriff's Office deputies, addressed the Chanhassen City Council at
Monday night's council meeting.

Amorosi had also spoken to the council in August about his son's death. Amorosi asked the council
what actions it has taken related to his previous questions. He asked that a tree be planted in his
son's memory in the city. Amorosi also said he wants the council to develop a plan to help
residents experiencing a mental health crisis.

"You have an obligation to aggressively pursue the truth," Amorosi said. "An alarming tragedy
happened in your town and under your watch..."

After Amorosi's address to council, Mayor Denny Laufenburger asked City Attorney Roger
Knutson "What is the council's official responsibility to respond to Mr. Amorosi's request?"

Knutson said the council could study mental health issues in general, but must avoid the specific
case being investigated.

Laufenburger read an update from County Attorney Mark Metz who suggested the investigation
may be closed by Sept. 14, after which Metz has 30 days to review the findings. "T he elements (of
the investigation) will remain confidential if charges are filed. If not, when the case is concluded, the
information becomes available after the term of appeal period ends," Laufenburger said.

Councilors expressed their sympathy for Archer Amorosi
Archer Amorosi and his family, and each councilor
spoke in support of looking at partnering with the community and schools to address mental
health issues.

Councilor Elise Ryan asked for more information from the Minnesota Department of Health and a
HealthPartners "Make it OK," program, and to look into planting a tree.

"I'd like to bring it back to a work session," Ryan said. "What these programs are, what the role of
the city would be. T o discuss it at a work session."

City Manager T odd Gerhardt said staff could research the programs, define them, how they work,
then find out what the council might want to do. "As for the memorial tree, we have a program,"
Gerhardt said.

"I know know NAMi (National Alliance on Mental Illness) is very willing to come in and speak,"
Councilor Bethany T jornhom said. She offered as a citizen, not as a member of council, to connect

the Amorosi family with mental health resources.

Laufenburger also addressed Amorosi's statement that the council had been silent in the face of
his son's death.

"T here are some things I'd like to say as a citizen, but because of my title and role as mayor, I have
to use judgement of how I use the comments. He (Amorosi) said he didn't hear any condolences.
T he city manager went to the wake; I was at the funeral. Each of us chose to console and offer
condolences in our own ways ... T his is not passivity or silence, but deep caring for our community.
T here are restrictions on what we can do."

Laufenburger suggested staff work with City Attorney Knutson to write an official response to
Amorosi, then create a work session for the council to learn about resources available for stress,
anxiety, mental health, addiction, and to learn what other similar communities are doing. "Perhaps
this precipitates a human rights commission," Laufenburger said.

Councilor Ryan made a motion to approve such a work session, seconded by Councilor Jerry
McDonald. T he motion passed unanimously.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Chanhassen Villag er (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 
Teen shot by deputies had outburst day before - - Star Tribune:
Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) - July 16, 2018 - page 10A
July 16, 2018 | Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) | PAUL WALSH; STAFF WRITER | Page 10A

T he teenager fatally shot outside his family’s Chanhassen home last week by sheriff’s deputies
went into a rage a day earlier after his parents took away his car, prompting a call to 911.

Archer Amorosi, 16, died of multiple gunshots fired by Carver County sheriff’s deputies late Friday
Archer Amorosi
morning, the Midwest Medical Examiner’s Office said Sunday.

It was the first confirmation from authorities that Amorosi was the person who died outside the
house in the 6400 block of Oriole Avenue after a woman there called 911, saying she feared her
son was suicidal.

Amorosi was a lacrosse and football player who was set to begin his junior year at Minnetonka
High School.

T he state Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA), which is investigating the shooting, said Amorosi
was brandishing weapons at deputies and others.

T he woman who called 911 also said her son was threatening her with knives and a baseball bat,
according to the BCA.

When deputies arrived they first used a Taser before two of them fired their weapons. Amorosi
was pronounced dead at the scene. Body cameras and dash camera video from one of the five
responding agencies may have recorded portions of the incident, according to the BCA.

Both officers involved in the shooting are on standard administrative leave, and the BCA will turn its
findings over to the Carver County Attorney’s Office for review. T he officers have not been
identified.

Police records indicated that the teen’s father had called 911 a day earlier to report that his son had
become enraged after losing his car privileges. T he man also told the dispatcher that his son had
not taken his medication for depression.

In a letter from Minnetonka High School to students and parents, Principal Jeff Erickson said
Amorosi was talented as an athlete, and in the classroom.

“T his situation is heartbreaking, and I want to extend my thoughts and prayers to Archer’s parents
and family, his friends, and the entire Minnetonka High School community,” Erickson wrote. “I know
this situation is particularly devastating to those of you who knew Archer well.”

T he principal also said that counselors and other staff will be on hand Monday at the school for

anyone needing assistance.

Erickson’s T witter account now displays a photo of Amorosi with his lacrosse teammates
celebrating after their third-place finish in the state tournament four weeks before the shooting.
T he team’s T witter account posted a photo of a memorial to Amorosi that includes his jerseys,
lacrosse equipment and two illuminated candles.

Paul Walsh • 612-673-4482

Copyrig ht 2018 Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities

 
Friends, family, students remember Archer Amorosi - Chanhassen
Villager (MN) - September 14, 2018
September 14, 2018 | Chanhassen Villager (MN) | Alex Chhith

School has started and Archer Amorosi

Archer Amorosi is on everyone's minds.

T he 16-year-old would have been a junior at Minnetonka High School, playing on the school's
football and lacrosse teams. T he tall teen with shoulder-length blond hair would have likely been
looking into which college he wanted to attend, said his father, Don Amorosi.

"He was a special kid," Don said.

Archer loved hip-hop, sports and driving around the family's boat. Though he was the youngest of
four, Archer was very protective of his family members and would do anything to make sure his
siblings were safe, Don recounted.

Archer was shot and killed on July 13 by two Carver County Sheriff's Office deputies in his
Chanhassen home after his mother reported to authorities he was suicidal. While the state Bureau
of Criminal Apprehension is conducting an investigation into the shooting, Don has been working
to help the Minnetonka community heal.

T hough his son is no longer on the football team, Don still plans to attend their games.

"Many of them see me as a connection to Archer," he said. "T he message is: Talk to your parents,
they love you."

If they don't want to talk to their parents, Don hopes they will talk to him, or somebody else.

"T hese kids have it hard. T he pressure in schools like Minnetonka is enormous, " Don said.

He believes there's still a stigma regarding talking about mental health among students at
Minnetonka High School. Increased pressure to perform at the highest levels academically and
athletically has students stressed, he said.

"We knew of one other kid in the school who was having some problems, my son told me about
him, but it was kept pretty quiet," Don said.

Archer had extreme anxiety, depression and was diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity
disorder (ADHD) in high school, according to Don.

"T he stigma is still enormous, and Archer would have never wanted to be labeled as having a
mental health issue," he said.

Don hopes he can help students and their parents talk to their parents about their problems.

"It affects many, many of us — probably more than less," he said.

Following the shooting, many in the community helped Don through his initial grief.

On July 18, the Minnetonka lacrosse team played a game against Lakeville North at its high school
in remembrance of Archer, who wore No. 25.

Don's friends, family and neighbors got him out of the house to talk about what happened.

One person made bumper stickers with an "A" and a halo for Archer's lacrosse teammates to put
on the back of their cars.

"(T he community has) been fantastic," Don said. "T hese guys have forced me to engage them;
they've forced me to go out and have breakfast and talk."

REMEMBERING

When longtime friend Brooke Dewing learned Archer was fatally shot, she was in shock.

"I really didn't understand how this could happen, especially to him. It was really difficult to process,
and it still is really difficult to process," the Minnetonka junior said. "I never thought the last time I
saw him would be the last time," Brooke said.

Ever since then, Archer has been on Brooke's mind daily. She remembers Archer as a person she
could trust. T he two met and dated in middle school and continued to be good friends throughout
high school.

"He was always really friendly to everyone he ever met," she said, noting that he had a warm
personality and could become friends with just about anyone.

Archer would play basketball with Brooke's brother, attend her sand volleyball tournaments with
her family, and went shopping with her mom. One time they didn't have much to do and they
decided to jump on a trampoline for hours, Brooke recounted.

"He was always really funny and goofy, he would make my entire family laugh really hard," Brooke
said.

Her mother, Karen Dewing, quickly added he was also very witty.

"I think that Archer was a special kid, and I don't think you'd run across kids like him all the time. I
just think he was a little bit of an old soul," Karen added.

T hey have noticed Don and his family's efforts have had a big impact on the community.

"It's such a dark time for them. They've been so giving and gracious with the kids — helping with

the kids. I've been really appreciative of that," Karen said.

"I think it is incredible that they are doing that," Brooke added.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Chanhassen Villag er (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 
BCA: Teen was armed with BB gun, hatchet - Report - Star Tribune:
Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) - July 18, 2018 - page 01B
July 18, 2018 | Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) | LIZ SAWYER; STAFF WRITER | Page 01B

A suicidal Chanhassen teenager shot and killed last week by Carver County sheriff’s deputies was
armed with a BB gun, according to the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension.

T he report released Tuesday also names the deputies involved.

Archer Amorosi
Archer Amorosi, 16, had a handgun-style BB gun and hatchet when he was shot multiple times
Friday after a brief standoff outside his family home, according to the preliminary report.

Carver County sheriff’s deputies went to the home after Amorosi’s mother called 911 to report
that her son was suicidal and threatening her with knives and a baseball bat, the BCA said.
According to 911 dispatch audio, Amorosi suffered from mental health issues, and police had
responded to a similar call at the home the day before.

T he BCA report said Amorosi refused repeated orders to leave the house, while a Taser and
pepper spray deployed through a window were ineffective and the deputies remained outside.

“At one point Amorosi ran out the front door of the home holding a hatchet and what appeared to
be a handgun. Deputies continued verbal commands and again deployed a T aser, but it was
ineffective,” the BCA said in a statement.

T wo of the officers fired their weapons, and Amorosi was pronounced dead at the scene. BCA
investigators recovered a hatchet and a handgun-style BB gun from near his body, the report said.

Body cameras and dash-camera video from one of the five responding agencies “may have
recorded portions of the incident,” the BCA said. T he officers who fired their guns are on standard
administrative leave. T he BCA will turn its findings over to the Carver County Attorney’s Office for
review.

Officers identified

T he BCA also identified the three officers:

• Cpl. Jacob Hodge fired his gun. He has been with the sheriff’s office for 18 years.

• Deputy Travis Larson fired his gun and discharged his Taser and pepper spray. Larson has been
with the department for two years.

• Cpl. Josh Baker discharged his T aser. Baker has been with the department for 11 years.

Larson was taken to a medical center in Chaska for minor injuries. He was treated and released.

Amorosi was a student at Minnetonka High School, where he played lacrosse and football. Funeral
services are scheduled for Wednesday at Westwood Community Church in Excelsior.

According to data provided by the Carver County Sheriff’s Office, the total of annual mental health
service calls increased steadily over a 10-year period, from 129 in 2005 to 384 in 2015.

Liz Sawyer • 612-673-4648

Copyrig ht 2018 Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities

 
Attorney's Office declines to charge deputies who - Chanhassen
Villager (MN) - October 11, 2018
October 11, 2018 | Chanhassen Villager (MN) | Alex Chhith

T he Carver County Attorney's Office announced it declined to press charges against two Carver
County Sheriff deputies, who killed a Chanhassen 16-year-old on July 13.

Archer Amorosi died in the yard of his home after he was shot by Cpl. Jake Hodge and Deputy
Archer Amorosi
T ravis Larson, according to the Attorney's Office 33-page legal analysis on the case. He would
have been in his junior year at Minnetonka High School.

T he Carver County Attorney's Office reviewed reports, transcribed statements, autopsy,
toxicological findings, squad videos, audio statements and a single body camera video involved in
the incident used by South Lake Minnetonka Police. Carver County Sheriff's Office deputies do not
currently use body cameras.

"Because the use of deadly force under the facts of this case is justified under Minnesota law, the
CCAO is declining to charge either officer with a crime," according to an Attorney's Office press
release.

Check back for more information later today.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Chanhassen Villag er (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 
Deputies fatally shoot Chanhassen teen - Mother - Star Tribune:
Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) - July 14, 2018 - page 01A
July 14, 2018 | Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) | LIZ SAWYER; PAUL WALSH; STAFF WRITERS |
Page 01A

A 16-year-old boy described as suicidal was shot dead by Carver County deputies with his parents
nearby after a brief standoff outside his Chanhassen home.

T he teen was identified by classmates as Archer Amorosi
set to begin his junior year at Minnetonka High School. Police said he brandished weapons at
officers.

Archer Amorosi, a lacrosse and football player who was

Deputies responded to the house in the 6400 block of Oriole Avenue just off Hwy. 7 about 10 a.m.
after a woman called 911 to report that her son was suicidal and threatening her with knives and a
baseball bat, according to the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension.

When deputies arrived they first used a Taser before two of them fired their weapons. Amorosi
was pronounced dead at the scene. Body cameras and dash camera video from one of the five
responding agencies “may have recorded portions of the incident,” according to the BCA, the
agency now investigating the shooting. Both officers involved in the shooting are now on standard
administrative leave, and the BCA will turn its findings over to the Carver County Attorney’s Office
for review.

By midafternoon, more than a dozen friends and teammates had come to grieve with relatives as
investigators processed the crime scene nearby. Many of the teen’s friends huddled together,
crying in disbelief.

Reed Greenwood, 16, described Amorosi as loud and energetic, part of the popular crowd at
school. Social media photos of Amorosi depict a strapping young man with long blond hair and a
bright smile.

T wo teenage boys from Minnetonka High arrived to pay their respects but declined to be
identified. T hey described him as a talented athlete and “super fun, nice guy.”

One boy questioned the use of force. “T hey knew about the mental issues,” he said. “It’s sad it had
to end this way.”

On T witter, fellow students posted memories of Amorosi and messages of condolences to the
family.

“Rip dude): u deserved better,” read one tweet. “T oday I lost a brother. Long live Archer,” read
another. Minnetonka High’s lacrosse team tweeted, “Rest easy, Archer, we will miss you incredibly
and love you forever.”

Emergency dispatch audio from the Carver County Sheriff’s Office revealed how the altercation
quickly unfolded.

“Male party has knives and a baseball bat,” the 911 dispatcher said of the initial call. “Mother is
stating that he wants the officers to shoot him.”

T he dispatcher identified the male as Amorosi. His mother, who called 911, said he had disabled
the garage door, locking her inside the garage.

“I was there yesterday. Dad said that he’s got some mental health issues,” an officer responded on
the audio. “Has this idea that he wants to go out like Bonnie and Clyde.”

T he officer said the father wasn’t aware of any firearms on the property other than an airsoft
pellet gun. An officer warned that the teen would be “hostile towards law enforcement as well.”

According to the audio, officers arrived and saw the teenager in the living room with “some kind of
handgun” in his left hand and a knife in the right. Mental health crisis services were also called to
the scene.

Officers formed a perimeter and one noted that “he does continually point a handgun in my
direction.” Amorosi began pacing between the front of the house and garage door, as deputies
discussed how to get the mother out of the garage. T he teen then returned to the living room and
alternated aiming between the officers and the garage door. Pepper spray was deployed.

According to the audio, the teen’s father then arrived and was escorted away. T he officers held
Amorosi at gunpoint while he had “a hatchet and something in his hands.”

“Get both the parents out of here,” another officer said just before Amorosi was shot.

“Shots fired, shots fired, ambulance code 3, suspect is down” an officer said. CPR was performed in
the yard on the south side of the house.

Ambulances were called for the mother and an officer, who had minor injuries.

A minute later a responder tells dispatch, “At this time we have terminated efforts on the gunshot
victim,” and cancels a call for an ambulance.

Heather Sandahl, who lives two doors down, saw police approaching the Amorosi home as she
was leaving her house at 10:10 a.m. for a Paisley Park tour.

Some officers appeared to be removing their guns from holsters and putting on bullet-resistant
vests. “We went back and asked the officers, ‘Are we safe here?’ ” Sandahl recalled. “T hey said they
weren’t sure, and we left as more squads came rushing down the road.”

It wasn’t until after the tour that she found out what had happened. A friend who remained inside
her home had dropped to the ground as shots rang out soon after, she said.

Hours later, Sandahl was waiting down the road at the Cub Foods parking lot, since she was
blocked from her driveway. When she learned the victim was Amorosi, she hunched over in tears.

“It’s just not fair,” she said.

Greg Greenwood, who lives down the street from the scene of the shooting, said he heard two
popping sounds just before 10:30 a.m. while he was in the Caribou parking lot about a quarter mile
away.

“I hunt, so I know gunshots,” said Greenwood, whose son Reed attends Minnetonka High. “We
don’t have much happen around here, so when it does, it’s a big shock.”

liz.sawyer@startribune.com • 612-673-4648 paul.walsh@startribune.com • 612-673-4482

Copyrig ht 2018 Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities

 
BCA completes investigation into officer-involved - Chanhassen
Villager (MN) - September 17, 2018
September 17, 2018 | Chanhassen Villager (MN) | Mark Olson

CHANHASSEN — All information and evidence related to the state Bureau of Criminal
Apprehension's investigation of the officer-involved shooting of Archer Amorosi
over to the Carver County Attorney's Office for review.

Archer Amorosi has been turned

Amorosi was shot and killed on July 13 by two Carver County Sheriff's Office deputies who
responded to his Chanhassen home after his mother reported to authorities he was suicidal.

T he BCA began providing the county attorney with information and evidence related to the
investigation shortly after the investigation began, according to a press release issued Sept. 17.
T hat process is now complete.

Carver County Attorney Mark Metz said he plans to make a decision related to the case within 30
days, "unless unforeseen events occur."

Copyrig ht, 2018, Chanhassen Villag er (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 
Carver County releases Amorosi 911 call and past - Chanhassen Villager
(MN) - July 27, 2018
July 27, 2018 | Chanhassen Villager (MN) | Alex Chhith

CHASKA — T he Carver County Sheriff's Office released a number of documents related to the July
13 confrontation between deputies and Chanhassen resident Archer Amorosi
Archer Amorosi that resulted in the
teen's death.

Cpl. Jacob Hodge and Deputy Travis Larson, who shot Amorosi, 16, are on paid administrative
leave while the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension investigates the case.

Hodges has had four disciplinary actions, according to sheriff records. Hodges first allegedly
violated the Sheriff's Office standards for conduct on October 2009, which resulted in a 40-hour
unpaid suspension.

In December 2010, Hodges allegedly violated sheriff policy which resulted in a six-hour suspension
and a written reprimand. Hodges allegedly violated sheriff policy and standards of conduct in June
2011. T hat resulted in a disciplinary action of seven 12-hour shifts unpaid, according to Sheriff's
Office records. Hodges has had one "unsustained complaint," according to the Sheriff's Office.

Hodges has received seven awards while at the department, most notably a Medal of Distinction in
April for response to a call of a suicidal female with a knife. He also received a Medal of Distinction
for responding to a call of threats of violence against the public and deputies in 2016, according to
the Sheriff's Office. In 2013, he received recognition for assisting with a mental health call and a
person with an assault rifle.

Larson has had no complaints or past disciplines. Hodges has been with the Carver County
Sheriff's Office for 18 years and Larson has been with the department for two. Larson received a
Lifesaving Award for performing CPR and saving a life in April.

Cpl. Josh Baker, who discharged his Taser in the encounter, has been with the department for 11
years and has had no complaints or past disciplines. Baker has received three recognition coins,
according to the Sheriff's Office.

911 CALL

Multiple law enforcement agencies responded on July 13, to a home on the 6400 block of Oriole
Avenue in north Chanhassen. T he previous day, two Sheriff's Office units had visited the same
address, according to the sheriff's blotter.

At about 10 a.m. July 13, the teen's mother called authorities and said her son was suicidal and was
threatening her with knives and a baseball bat, according to the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension.
She warned the emergency dispatcher that Amorosi may try to hurt responding officers, according

to the 911 transcript released by authorities.

"He wants them to get in like a showdown with police," she said according to the transcript. She
had been trapped in the garage by Amorosi and for much of the conversation talked with the
dispatcher on how she could unlock the garage door and get out.

"(Deputies) were here yesterday, he saw them, he needed a medical evaluation and they couldn't
do anything," she said. Later, his mother told the dispatcher she was scared for her son.

"I am, I am, I'm scared for him, I'm scared for him ... What are they going to do?" she said. T he
dispatcher told her to take a couple of deep breaths.

"Couple of deep breaths the officers are going to do their job, OK? Couple of deep breaths for me,"
the dispatcher said.

T he BCA is conducting an investigation and body and dashboard cameras captured portions of the
incident, according to a BCA press release. T he Carver County Sheriff's Office does not currently
use body cameras.

"T he BCA will conduct a thorough investigation and gather all of the evidence and then turn its
findings over without recommendation to the Carver County Attorney's Office for review," the
release stated.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Chanhassen Villag er (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 
Chanhassen - 2 officers cleared in teen's fatal - St. Paul Pioneer Press
(MN) - October 12, 2018 - page A2
October 12, 2018 | St. Paul Pioneer Press (MN) | Page A2

Prosecutors say they won't charge two sheriff's officers who fatally shot a suicidal teenager in
Chanhassen last summer.

T he Carver County attorney's office said Thursday that the officers' use of deadly force was
justified.

Archer Amorosi was shot and killed after running from his house in Chanhassen

Sixteen-year-old Archer Amorosi
on July 13. His mother had dialed 911, saying her son was suicidal and threatening her with knives
and a baseball bat.

Authorities say the teen was holding a hatchet and a BB pistol.

After firing a stun gun failed to stop him, Carver County sheriff's Cpl. Jake Hodge and deputy T ravis
Larson opened fire. An autopsy found Amorosi died of multiple gunshot wounds.

T he Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension investigated the shooting and forwarded its
findings to the county attorney's office.

-- Associated Press

Copyrig ht 2018 Saint Paul Pioneer Press

 
BCA finishes probe of Chanhassen teen’s shooting - Star Tribune:
Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) - September 18, 2018 - page 05B
September 18, 2018 | Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) | KAREN ZAMORA; STAFF WRITER |
Page 05B

State authorities have completed their investigation into the fatal shooting of a Chanhassen teen
and turned the case over to the Carver County Attorney’s Office for consideration of charges.

Sheriff’s deputies shot Archer Amorosi
Archer Amorosi, 16, several times after a brief standoff July 13 outside his
family’s home. A preliminary Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA) report said he had a handgun-
style BB gun and hatchet and had refused repeated orders to leave the house.

Officers had also used a Taser and pepper spray through a window to try to get him out of the
house.

T he BCA turned the case over to prosecutors on Monday. “T he BCA began providing the county
attorney with information and evidence related to the investigation shortly after the investigation
began,” the BCA news release said.

Sheriff’s deputies went to the home after Amorosi’s mother called 911 to report that her son was
suicidal and threatening her with knives and a baseball bat, the BCA said. According to 911 dispatch
audio, Amorosi suffered from mental health issues, and police had responded to a similar call at
the home the day before.

Amorosi was a student at Minnetonka High School, where he played lacrosse and football.

KAREN ZAMORA

Copyrig ht 2018 Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities

 
Community grieves for Archer Amorosi - Chanhassen Villager (MN) -
July 19, 2018
July 19, 2018 | Chanhassen Villager (MN) | Alex Chhith

T he community is grieving the loss of Archer Amorosi
County Sheriff's Office deputies that resulted in his death on Friday, July 13.

Archer Amorosi, 16, following a confrontation with Carver

T he tall, blond-haired teen played lacrosse and football at Minnetonka High School and would have
started his junior year this fall. T eammates, friends and families shared their memories of young
Amorosi, some tagged their posts on T witter with # Astrong.

Minnetonka High School Principal Jeff Erickson sent out a note the morning following his death to
parents and students, commemorating Amorosi.

"T his situation is heartbreaking, and I want to extend my thoughts and prayers to Archer's parents
and family, his friends, and the entire Minnetonka High School community. I know this situation is
particularly devastating to those of you who knew Archer well," Erickson stated.

"Archer was talented — in and out of the classroom — and greatly enjoyed representing MHS in
athletic competition. Archer excelled in lacrosse and football — most notably this spring as
lacrosse was in the run for the state championship. He had a strong group of friends and highly
valued those relationships. He will be deeply missed."

Erickson encouraged parents to check in with their children to see how they are doing.
"Minnetonka Schools' Student Support website also lists crisis hotlines for immediate support and
resources for coping with grief," he noted. Beginning Monday, counselors and support staff were
available at Minnetonka High School, if students wanted to talk about Amorosi's death.

Erickson also asked, "Students, please look out for each other and take care of yourself. It is
important to share how you are feeling with a friend or caring adult."

"T onka, we are a strong community. We all draw support and strength from our community, not
only during the moments of joy, but during these times of loss. We need to use this strength to
look after and care for each other."

On Wednesday evening, the Minnetonka lacrosse team played a game against Lakeville North at
its high school in remembrance of Amorosi, who wore No. 25 on the team.

"It is with a heavy heart that we have to say this, but unfortunately we lost one of our teammates
today," the Minnetonka High School lacrosse team's T witter account posted. "Archer Amorosi
Archer Amorosi
was a high energy, funny and loving kid who will always be remembered by this team and
community."

"Rest easy, Archer, we will miss you incredibly and love you forever," the Tweet continued.

SHOOT ING

T he two deputies who shot Amorosi are on paid administrative leave while the Bureau of Criminal
Apprehension investigates the case.

Multiple law enforcement agencies responded to the July 13 shooting, at a home on the 6400 block
of Oriole Avenue in north Chanhassen. T he previous day, two Sheriff's Office units had visited the
same address, according to the sheriff's blotter.

At about 10 a.m. July 13, the teen's mother called authorities and said her son was suicidal and was
threatening her with knives and a baseball bat, according to a BCA press release.

"Deputies arrived and encountered a 16-year-old male and deployed a T aser. At one point during
the encounter, two Carver County deputies fired their weapons, striking the individual. He was
pronounced deceased at the scene," it continued. Amorosi died at 10:35 a.m., according to a
Midwest Examiner's Office press release.

"T he cause of death is multiple gunshot wounds. T he manner is homicide," stated the release. "No
other information will be released regarding this case and death investigation by the Midwest
Medical Examiner's Office."

One deputy was transported to 212 Medical Center in Chaska for non-life-threatening injuries. He
was treated and released.

T he BCA is investigating the incident.

"T he BCA will conduct a thorough investigation and gather all of the evidence and then turn its
findings over without recommendation to the Carver County Attorney's Office for review," the
release stated.

FUNERAL

Funeral services for Archer Amorosi
Church in Chanhassen.

Archer Amorosi were held on Wednesday, July 18, at Westwood Community

"Archer had a magnetic personality and never hesitated to help someone who he knew was
struggling," stated his obituary in the Star T ribune.

"It has been a sad and simply heartbreaking few days for our community. Archer was loved by
many and will be missed," Erickson stated in a letter to the community.

"Please continue to hold Archer's family and friends in your thoughts and prayers."

Copyrig ht, 2018, Chanhassen Villag er (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 
'Suicidal' 16-year-old shot by police in Twin - Duluth News Tribune (MN)
- July 14, 2018 - page A4
July 14, 2018 | Duluth News Tribune (MN) | Barry Amundson Forum News Service | Page A4

CHANHASSEN, Minn. -- A suicidal 16-year-old with apparent mental health issues is dead after an
officer-involved shooting outside his Chanhassen home Friday morning, July 13, according to the
Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension.

T he BCA said Carver County deputies in the southwest T win Cities suburb were called to the home
at about 10 a.m. by a mother who said her son was suicidal and was threatening her with knives
and a baseball bat.

Deputies encountered the teenager and deployed a stun gun. Later during the incident, two
deputies fired their weapons, striking the teen. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

Multiple law enforcement agencies were at the home, which is in a wooded area along busy
Minnesota Highway 7 just south of Lake Minnetonka in the western suburbs of Minneapolis.

Family members and friends were seen openly crying in the driveway.

One deputy was transported to a Chaska medical center for non-life-threatening injuries.

It was not stated by the BCA if the teen had a gun.

T he BCA is gathering evidence in the case and conducting interviews with witnesses. Body
cameras may have captured portions of the incident, the BCA said.

T he BCA said it would identify the deputies who fired their weapons once both officers have been
interviewed. T hey were placed on standard administrative leave.

T he agency also said the teen would be identified by the Midwest Regional Medical Examiner's
Office once an autopsy has been completed.

However, KST P-T V, citing a family friend, identified the teen as Archer Amorosi
Minnetonka High School.

Archer Amorosi, a student at

School district officials declined to comment until they had more information from authorities.

T he investigation's findings will ultimately be turned over to the Carver County attorney's office for
review.

T he Chanhassen incident is the second recent officer-involved shooting death in the T win Cities.

T hurman Blevins Jr., 31, was killed June 23 after Minneapolis police officers responded to a 911 call
of a man shooting a gun into the air and ground.

Authorities said two Minneapolis officers fired their guns after chasing Blevins into an alley on the
city's north side. T hey said a gun was recovered at the scene, but some community members
have disputed that Blevins was armed.

T he BCA is also handling that case.

T he St. Paul Pioneer Press contributed to this report

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Duluth News Tribune

 
Police were called to Chanhassen home 9 times in 3 - Associated Press
State Wire: Minnesota (MN) - July 18, 2018
July 18, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN)

CHANHASSEN, Minn. (AP) — Police were called to the Chanhassen home where a teenager was
fatally shot by deputies a total of nine times in the last three years.

T he last call — a mental health call — was made Friday. Authorities say Archer Amorosi
called 911 to say her son was suicidal and threatening her with knives and a baseball bat.
Investigators say the 16-year-old ran out of the house with a hatchet and what appeared to be a
handgun.

Archer Amorosi's mother

Deputies used a stun gun on Amorosi before two Carver County deputies fired their guns. Amorosi
died. A hatchet and BB gun were found nearby.

KMSP-T V reports a police log shows eight other calls for service to the home since July 2015,
including two domestic calls and one call for a juvenile female runaway. Details about each call
weren't available.

___

Information from: KMSP-T V, http://www.myfox9.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Deputy names, other details released in Minnesota - Associated Press:
US News Online - July 18, 2018
July 18, 2018 | Associated Press: US News Online

CHANHASSEN, Minn. (AP) — More details have been released in the fatal shooting of a 16-year-
old student in suburban Minneapolis, including the names of the sheriff's deputies involved.

T he Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension says Carver County sheriff's Cpl. Jacob Hodge
and Deputy Travis Larson both fired their guns during a confrontation with Archer Amorosi
Archer Amorosi on
Friday in Chanhassen. Both are on standard administrative leave.

Authorities say they recovered a BB gun and a hatchet near Amorosi's body.

T he teen's mother called deputies to the family's home, saying he was suicidal and threatening her
with knives and a baseball bat.

Investigators say Amorosi ran out of the house holding a hatchet and what appeared to be a
handgun. Deputies used a stun gun on Amorosi, and Hodge and Larson fired their guns at one
point, hitting him.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Associated Press All Rights Reserved

 
Officers identified in shooting of Chanhassen boy - Duluth News
Tribune (MN) - July 18, 2018 - page A2
July 18, 2018 | Duluth News Tribune (MN) | Page A2

St. Paul Pioneer Press

CHANHASSEN, Minn. -- Authorities on T uesday, released the names of the Carver County sheriff's
deputies involved in fatally shooting a 16-year-old Chanhassen boy Friday along with details that
revealed the teen ran at the deputies with a hatchet and handgun-style BB gun.

According to the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, Carver County sheriff's Cpl. Jacob
Hodge, Cpl. Josh Baker and deputy Travis Larson responded to a 911 call Friday morning in the
western T win Cities suburb near Minnesota Highway 7.

A woman had called reporting that her son, now identified as 16-year-old Archer Amorosi
suicidal and threatening her with knives and a baseball bat.

Archer Amorosi, was

According to the BCA, the preliminary investigation said when deputies arrived, they ordered
Amorosi to come out of the house, but he refused. Deputies fired a Taser stun gun and pepper
spray through a window, but they were "ineffective." T he deputies were outside when Amorsi ran
out of the front door holding a hatchet and what appeared to be a handgun.

Deputies "continued verbal commands and again deployed a T aser, but it was ineffective,"
according to the BCA.

Hodge and Larson then fired their guns. Amorosi was shot multiple times and died at the scene.

A hatchet and a handgun-style BB-gun was found near his body,

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Duluth News Tribune

 
Report: Details released in deputy shooting of - Chanhassen Villager
(MN) - October 11, 2018
October 11, 2018 | Chanhassen Villager (MN) | Alex Chhith

CHANHASSEN — T he Carver County Attorney's Office has declined to press charges against two
Carver County Sheriff deputies who killed a 16-year-old Chanhassen boy on July 13.

Archer Amorosi died in the yard of his home after he was shot by Cpl. Jake Hodge and Deputy
Archer Amorosi
T ravis Larson, according to the Attorney's Office 33-page report on the case. Amorosi would have
been in his junior year at Minnetonka High School.

T he Carver County Attorney's Office reviewed reports, transcribed statements, autopsy,
toxicological findings, squad videos, audio statements and a single body camera video involved in
the incident, used by South Lake Minnetonka Police Officer Sgt. James Williams. Carver County
Sheriff's Office deputies do not use body cameras.

"Because the use of deadly force under the facts of this case is justified under Minnesota law, the
CCAO is declining to charge either officer with a crime," stated an Attorney's Office press release.

GARAGE

Carver County Sheriff's Office deputies responded to the scene at about 10 a.m., after receiving a
report from Archer's mother that he was being destructive. She told deputies that they would need
multiple officers.

"When asked by the 911 dispatcher if she thought her son would hurt the officers, Ms. Amorosi
replied, 'Yes, I do. He wants them, he wants to have (inaudible) like a showdown with police,"
according to the report.

Archer had locked the garage door, leaving his mother no way of escape. T he garage door guide
track had been bent and a large riding mower was parked in front of the service door. While
trapped, she told Deputy Eric Wolf that Archer had an Airsoft gun.

"However, Deputy Wolf was 'not 100 percent sure' if Archer was holding an Airsoft gun," the report
stated.

Deputy Larson attempted to open the garage from the front of the home.

"Finding the release cord inoperable, Deputy Larson then went to the rear of the home and
attempted to kick in the service door. In taking this action, Deputy Larson saw Archer pointing a
gun at him, but now through a rear window that also overlooked the garage service door," the
report stated. "Because glare from this window prevented Deputy Larson from clearly seeing
Archer's actions, Deputy Larson broke out this rear window with his baton."

He then saw him standing near the kitchen counter and shot his pepper spray to incapacitate and
temporarily blind him, according to the report. T hen he shot his T aser, but missed. He put in a new
cartridge and meanwhile, Archer ran out of the home.

Cpl. Hodge then took a full-size ax from his squad car and forced open the garage service door.

SHOT S

Archer ran out of the house with a gun and 14-inch-long hatchet, according to the report.

"Archer was continually pointing the gun at deputies at the scene. Deputies gave repeated, loud
commands to Archer to drop the gun," it stated.

"In an attempt to defuse the situation, Deputy Larson yelled out to Archer that 'I know your gun is
a fake!' and to put it on the ground and that he, Deputy Larson, did not want to shoot Archer," the
report stated. "Archer yelled back 'You don't want to (expletive) see if this gun's real or not, you
don't want to find out. You know, shoot me, shoot me, I'm gonna kill you!"

While outside, Archer ran past Cpl. Baker, who shot him with his Taser near the end of the
driveway. Archer fell to the ground, but before officers could approach, he "leapt back up."

He ran to one side of the yard and then turned back and ran toward the home. He ran at a full
sprint toward Deputy Hodge and said 'I'm gonna kill you,' according to Larson's testimony in the
report. In that moment, both Hodge and Larson fired multiple times at Archer.

Another deputy reported Archer had the hatchet over his head like he was about to strike.

T he BCA recovered 10 shell cases from the yard, "However, because it cannot be ascertained to
an absolute certainty that all shell casings were recovered, it remains possible that more than 10
shots were fired," according to a footnote in the report.

Hodge heard over the radio the gun was Airsoft, but could not see an orange tip. Williams said he
"understood it might have been an Airsoft gun, but nobody was certain." T he gun looked real to
Williams, the report stated.

A BB gun was recovered near Archer's body, according to the report. After he was shot, Sgt.
Williams applied handcuffs.

Archer's last text message was sent to his father at 10:13 a.m. during the incident.

"I love you," it said.

PREVIOUS DAY

Amorosi's mother told the BCA that Archer never threatened her and thought the deputies were
going to take Archer for a medical exam.

"I was worried that he wanted the police to hurt him," she said, according to the report.

Deputies responded to the home the day before the shooting. Archer's father, Don Amorosi,
called deputies, citing that Archer had a mental health break down, according to the report. He said
the crisis center told them the deputies would escort him to the hospital.

Archer had not been taking his medications and had locked the family out of the home, according
to the report. Cpl. Baker de-escalated the situation and Don told them he did not want to force
Archer to go in for an evaluation, the report stated.

ANALYSIS

T he Carver County Attorney's Office hired Ron Schwint, an independent use-of-force expert for an
opinion into the case. He worked as a law enforcement officer with the Sioux Falls Police
Department for 21 years before retiring as a field supervisor.

Schwint said the actions of the deputies were "objectively reasonable and used a great deal of
restraint in their application of force against Archer," according to the report.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Chanhassen Villag er (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 
Deputy names, other details released in Minnesota - Associated Press
State Wire: Minnesota (MN) - July 18, 2018
July 18, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN)

CHANHASSEN, Minn. (AP) — More details have been released in the fatal shooting of a 16-year-
old student in suburban Minneapolis, including the names of the sheriff's deputies involved.

T he Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension says Carver County sheriff's Cpl. Jacob Hodge
and Deputy Travis Larson both fired their guns during a confrontation with Archer Amorosi
Archer Amorosi on
Friday in Chanhassen. Both are on standard administrative leave.

Authorities say they recovered a BB gun and a hatchet near Amorosi's body.

T he teen's mother called deputies to the family's home, saying he was suicidal and threatening her
with knives and a baseball bat.

Investigators say Amorosi ran out of the house holding a hatchet and what appeared to be a
handgun. Deputies used a stun gun on Amorosi, and Hodge and Larson fired their guns at one
point, hitting him.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Attorney's Office declines to charge deputies who - Chaska Herald (MN)
- October 11, 2018
October 11, 2018 | Chaska Herald (MN) | Alex Chhith

T he Carver County Attorney's Office announced it declined to press charges against two Carver
County Sheriff deputies, who killed a Chanhassen 16-year-old on July 13.

Archer Amorosi died in the yard of his home after he was shot by Cpl. Jake Hodge and Deputy
Archer Amorosi
T ravis Larson, according to the Attorney's Office 33-page legal analysis on the case. He would
have been in his junior year at Minnetonka High School.

T he Carver County Attorney's Office reviewed reports, transcribed statements, autopsy,
toxicological findings, squad videos, audio statements and a single body camera video involved in
the incident used by South Lake Minnetonka Police. Carver County Sheriff's Office deputies do not
currently use body cameras.

"Because the use of deadly force under the facts of this case is justified under Minnesota law, the
CCAO is declining to charge either officer with a crime," according to an Attorney's Office press
release.

Check back for more information later today.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Chaska Herald (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 


DA: Man fatally shot by Manheim Township officer - LNP (Lancaster, PA)
- May 11, 2018
May 11, 2018 | LNP (Lancaster, PA) | LINDSEY BLEST | Staff Writer

T he man fatally shot by a Manheim Township police officer outside the police station T uesday
posed a threat to officers and civilians nearby, the Lancaster County district attorney's office said
Friday.

T he statement was the office's first explanation of why the encounter with 65-year-old John
John
Simson prompted the use of force that resulted in his death.
Simson

Simson shot himself in the face before a Manheim Township police officer returned a fatal, single
shot, according to Lancaster County Coroner Dr. Stephen Diamantoni.

Diamantoni ruled Simson's death a homicide caused by a gunshot wound to the body after an
autopsy Friday.

"Beyond a reasonable doubt, that wound was fatal," he said, though he declined to specify where
the officer's shot hit Simson.

Officials said Simson, armed with a shotgun, drove to the police station off Oregon Pike around 3
p.m. Tuesday and had a confrontation with the unidentified officer.

On Friday, Hambright said the self-inflicted shot was the second shot fired by Simson. He declined
to describe the first shot.

T he officer made repeated verbal commands and then shot Simson once in the body, according to
the district attorney's office.

"While not complete, the investigation thus far clearly indicates Mr. Simson was not fully
incapacitated by the self-inflicted wound, and he continued to pose a threat to officers and civilians
in the area," Hambright said Friday.

"Any time one individual takes another individual's life, it is properly classified by the coroner as
homicide," Hambright said. "However, the coroner's determination does not speak to whether the
homicide was justified or not. Such determination will be made by District Attorney Stedman upon
review of all circumstances, evidence and information."

A Manheim Township police detective received a report of child abuse at Simson's Geneva Road
home March 30, according to charging documents.

Simson was charged May 4 with sexually abusing a 9-year-old girl, according to charging
documents. T he East Petersburg man admitted to the crime in April, police said.

He was arraigned by District Judge Brian Chudzik the day he was charged and posted $50,000 bail.

Chudzik declined to comment on Simson's arraignment T hursday.

No one answered the door of Simson's Geneva Street home Thursday morning.

Property records show Simson bought the home with his wife, Terry Simson, in 2009.

A neighbor who didn't want to give his name said the Simsons would go on walks in the
neighborhood. T his winter Simson let several neighbors use his snow blower, the neighbor said.

"It's unfortunate what happened," the man said. "People need to embrace the family now and lift
them up."

A family member reached by phone Thursday said the family did not want to talk to a reporter.

East Petersburg Borough Manager Robin Hemperly said she did not know Simson.

"We didn't have any property complaints or police complaints about him," she said T hursday. "He's
not been someone that we dealt with."

Although the borough contracts with Manheim Township Police Department for services,
Hemperly said she wasn't privy to details of the investigation.

"We have a stellar police department," she said.

All content © 2018 LNP Media Group, Inc. and may not be republished without permission.

 
DA: Shooting of man with shotgun at police station - Associated Press
State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA) - May 23, 2018
May 23, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA)

LANCAST ER, Pa. (AP) — A Pennsylvania prosecutor says a police officer was justified in shooting a
man who confronted officers with a shotgun outside a township police station.

LNP newspaper reports that Lancaster County's district attorney said 65-year-old John Simson
East Petersburg arrived at the Manheim Township police station May 8 with the weapon, upset
after being charged four days earlier with sexually assaulting a minor.

John Simson of

District Attorney Craig Stedman said Simson refused to comply with police commands and shot
himself in the face before the officer fired a fatal single shot. He said the man had written a suicide
note to his family earlier.

Stedman said there was no question in his mind that "the officer was justified in what he did."

___

Information from: LNP, http://lancasteronline.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
DA: Police-involved fatal shooting in Manheim - LNP (Lancaster, PA) -
May 23, 2018
May 23, 2018 | LNP (Lancaster, PA) | LINDSEY BLEST and JEFF HAWKES | Staff Writers

A Manheim Township police officer was justified in fatally shooting a suicidal man who confronted
police with a shotgun earlier this month, Lancaster County's district attorney said this afternoon.

John Simson, 65, of East Petersburg, arrived at the Manheim Township police station May 8 with
John Simson
a shotgun and shot himself in the face before an officer fired a fatal, single shot, District Attorney
Craig Stedman said.

Simson did not comply with police commands, Stedman said before showing video footage of the
incident, which happened outside the station on Municipal Drive.

"T here's not a question in my mind the officer was justified in what he did," Stedman said during a
news conference at the Lancaster County Courthouse.

"It's (Simson's) fault," Stedman said.

T he district attorney said Simson wrote a suicide note to his family before going to the police
station.

At the press conference, Stedman showed video footage of the confrontation and shooting.

T he video shows Simson park across the street at the Manheim Township Ambulance Association,
get out of his truck and take a shot without aim, possibly into the air.

Simson then walked behind the station, where he pointed the shotgun at Officer Ryan Snyder, who
was in a cruiser, Stedman said. Simson walked around to the entrance of the police station while
Snyder radioed for help.

At that point, Stedman said, Snyder would have been justified in using deadly force. Other people
were in the vicinity and in danger.

"It's an extremely dangerous situation," Stedman said.

After pointing his shotgun at the police cruiser, Simson walked to the police station entrance and
turned the gun on himself, shooting himself in the face, the video shows.

Warning: T his livestream contains graphic content.

Simson fell, but was still alive. After about 20 seconds, he sat up, twice, and reached for his
shotgun the second time. He pointed it toward the corner of the building, around which Officer

Snyder was approaching, Stedman said.

T hat's when Officer Calvin Steidler arrived in his cruiser, got out and told Simson to drop the
weapon. When Simson did not comply, Steidler shot Simson, Stedman said.

Steidler fired a single, fatal shot from about 30 yards away, Stedman said.

"One shot. It's a very, very accurate shot," Stedman said.

Stedman called Simson's act "a cowardly way out for him."

"He tried to kill himself. He left it up to the police, obviously, to finish it," Stedman said.

Simson had been charged a few days prior with sexually abusing a young girl. He was arraigned on
the charges and posted bail.

Steidler was on paid, administrative leave after the shooting, but will return to duty.

Releasing an officer's name in a police-involved shooting is handled on a case-by-case basis,
Stedman said.

"We talked to the officer involved and made sure that he was comfortable with it. Had he not been
comfortable with releasing his name, we would not have done it," he said.

"He didn't go to work that day thinking he was going to take someone's life," Stedman said of
Steidler. "T he time he had to act, he did with professionalism. He's got to deal with this, too."

All content © 2018 LNP Media Group, Inc. and may not be republished without permission.

 
Coroner rules homicide in death of man shot by - LNP (Lancaster, PA) -
May 11, 2018
May 11, 2018 | LNP (Lancaster, PA) | LINDSEY BLEST | Staff Writer

A man shot himself in the face before being fatally shot by a Manheim Township police officer
T uesday in front of the police station, according to his autopsy results.

Lancaster County Coroner Dr. Stephen Diamantoni ruled the death of 65-year-old John Simson
homicide. Diamantoni said his death was caused by a single gunshot wound to the body.

John Simson a

"He had a self-inflicted gunshot wound to his face that preceded the fatal wound fired by the police
officer," Diamantoni said.

Officials said Simson drove to the police station off Oregon Pike around 3 p.m. He was armed with
a shotgun, which fired at least twice — once at himself — and had a confrontation with a Manheim
T ownship police officer.

T he officer made repeated verbal commands and then shot Simson once in the body, according to
the Lancaster County district attorney's office.

Diamantoni declined to specify where the shot hit Simson.

"Beyond a reasonable doubt, that wound was fatal," he said.

Police have not said whether Simson was trying to provoke a lethal response from the officer.
Police also have not said where he fired the one or more other shots.

T he district attorney's office will eventually make a determination on whether or not the officer's
use of force was justified.

An East Petersburg resident, Simson became known to police at least since the end of March,
court records show.

A Manheim Township police detective received a report of child abuse at Simson's Geneva Road
home March 30, according to charging documents.

Simson admitted to his involvement April 5, and police filed six felonies regarding assault of a 9-
year-old girl May 4.

T hat day, Simson turned himself in, was arraigned by District Judge Brian Chudzik and posted
$50,000 bail.

Chudzik repeatedly said "no comment" when asked Thursday to comment on Simson's

arraignment.

All content © 2018 LNP Media Group, Inc. and may not be republished without permission.

 
DA to announce today whether Manheim Township - LNP (Lancaster,
PA) - May 23, 2018
May 23, 2018 | LNP (Lancaster, PA) | LINDSEY BLEST | Staff Writer

Lancaster County District Attorney Craig Stedman will say today whether a fatal shot fired by a
Manheim Township police officer earlier this month was an appropriate use of force.

Stedman plans to make his determination public at a news conference at the Lancaster County
Courthouse at noon.

An East Petersburg man was killed by a single shot from the officer after a confrontation outside
the Manheim Township police station May 8.

Officials said the man, 65-year-old John Simson
Simson shot himself in the face before the officer returned a fatal, single shot, according to
Lancaster Count Coroner Dr. Stephen Diamantoni.

John Simson, arrived at the station armed with a shotgun.

Simson was not fully incapacitated by the self-inflicted wound, and he posed a threat to officers
and people in the area of the police station, the district attorney's office has said.

Simson had been charged a few days prior with sexually abusing a young girl. He was arraigned on
the charges and posted bail.

T he officer, who has not been identified, has been on paid, administrative leave since the shooting.

As district attorney, Stedman decides whether use of force is appropriate when a police officer
fires a gun.

Follow LancasterOnline for live updates during the news conference.

All content © 2018 LNP Media Group, Inc. and may not be republished without permission.

 


 
Click here for updates on this story 

    Ogden, Utah (KSTU) -- Additional details were released by Ogden police Saturday on an officer-involved shooting,

where a man with alleged ties to white supremacist prison gangs threatened two officers with a softball-sized rock,

resulting in police shooting him dead. 

According to Randy Watt, Ogden Police Department Chief of Police, Officers on patrol were approached by two

individuals, who said that a male suspect, later identified as Christopher William Parrish, 33, was acting strangely,

and acting as if he wanted to fight people. 

The incident happened near a Walmart on 1959 Wall Ave., Watt stated. 

When officers located and confronted Parrish, he could not be understood when he spoke, and allegedly tried to

drive away from police but crashed a car he was driving, which was not registered to him. 

Parrish was then chased on-foot by officers to the area of 21st Street, Watt stated. 

At that point, Watt said Parrish picked up a softball sized rock, and â€œaggressivelyâ€ moved toward the officers. 

Police tried to deploy two tasers on Parrish, but they did not work, Watt said. Parrish allegedly continued to

advance toward officers with the rock, though it was unclear if he struck either officer. 

Watt stated that after the tasers were not effective, officers used their firearms on Parrish. Emergency crews

arrived at the scene shortly after, but could not revive him and he succumbed to his injuries. 

Police took several hours to positively identify Parrish, Watt stated. When he was identified, police said they

discovered that he was a parole fugitive from Arizona. 

A press release made by the Ogden Police Department stated that Parrish had a no-bail warrant for vehicle

burglary and had been convicted in the past for felony burglary and felony aggravated assault with a deadly

weapon in Arizona and Oregon. 

Watt stated that Parrish had tattoos on his body that indicated he was a member of white supremacist prison

gangs, called the Supreme Allied Warriors and the Sacred Arian Culture. 

Both officers who shot Parrish were put on administrative leave while an investigation was being conducted, Watt

stated. Body cameras were worn by at least one officer during the incident, Watt said, and authorities were working

Please note: This content carries a strict local market embargo. If you share the same market as the contributor of

to go over the footage. 

this article, you may not use it on any platform. 
 
 


2 killed in separate police shootings on Friday - Deseret News, The (Salt
Lake City, UT) - November 11, 2018
November 11, 2018 | Deseret News, The (Salt Lake City, UT)

By Amy Joi

O'Donoghue

and Jasen Lee

SALT  LAKE CIT Y - Investigators on Saturday released the identities of two men shot and killed by
police Friday in separate incidents.

Salt Lake police, however, are offering very few details about what led officers to shoot and kill
Cody Paris Belgard, 30, about 8 p.m. at 800 N. Sir Michael Drive (1955 West) in Salt Lake City.

West Valley police are investigating the shooting death. Court records show Belgard, of Salt Lake
City, had an arrest record related to minor drug offenses.

T he second fatal police shooting occurred in Ogden. Police say a man was shot after attacking
officers with a rock. He was identified Saturday as a convicted felon with "white supremacist prison
gang" tattoos.

Ogden Police Chief Randy Watt said Christopher William Parrish
Christopher William Parrish, 33, came at officers in a
violent, threatening manner prompting officers to take decisive action to stop the threat to
protect their safety.

Speaking to reporters, Watt explained that a patrol officer who happened to be at a Walmart at
1959 Wall Ave. on an unrelated matter was approached by two individuals who reported that a man
was acting "suspicious, manic and threatening" to people in the area of the store. T he witnesses
provided a description of the man and a vehicle.

T he officer observed the vehicle leaving the Walmart parking lot, followed the car and conducted a
traffic stop in the 200 west block of 20th Street and approached the vehicle. T he officer tried to
identify the driver and asked him to exit the vehicle. Instead, the man drove off rapidly but ended up
on the shoulder of the road with the vehicle disabled.

T he driver got out of the vehicle and fled on foot across 20th Street and ran away as officers gave
chase.

"He entered a yard on the south side of west 21st Street, picked up a softball-sized rock and
charged the officers," Watt said. "T he officers deployed two T asers, but the Tasers were
ineffective and the individual continued to rapidly and violently attack the officers with the rock."

"When the Tasers failed, the officers used their service firearms to stop this violent attack by the
suspect," he added. "Once the suspect was down, Ogden Fire Department paramedics attempted
to treat the subject but it was to no avail and the suspect was pronounced dead at the scene."

No police officers were injured, Watt said.

Using fingerprint analysis, investigators were able to identify Parrish, a paroled fugitive from
Arizona with a significant felony record in Oregon and Arizona, including crimes of violence and
lengthy prison stays, according to the chief.

Parrish had two felony burglary convictions and a felony conviction for aggravated assault with a
deadly weapon. He had tattoos indicating involvement in a "white supremacist prison gang" called
Supreme Allied Warriors as well as the Secret Aryan Culture, Watt said.

T he officers involved in the incident are on paid administrative leave pending the completion of the
internal affairs investigation and external case review, Watt noted. No motive for the suspect's
behavior has been determined as of yet, he said.

"It's unfortunate that these kinds of events occur, but they do and such results are experienced,"
Watt said, adding that body camera footage of the incident is being reviewed.

(Parrish) had approached some people in the Walmart and gave some indications that he wanted
to fight people and was acting strange enough that (witnesses) felt compelled to report the
behavior to the police, Watt said.

An autopsy was conducted Saturday and a toxicology report is expected to take at least six weeks,
he said. Police are interviewing the person who owned the car the that Parrish was driving, which
they said was borrowed lawfully from an acquaintance.

T he Weber County Attorney's Office will lead the investigation into the shooting death.

Email: amyjoi@deseretnews.com; jlee@deseretnews.com

T witter: amyjoi16

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Deseret News Publishing  Company

 

 
Click here for updates on this story 

    Ogden, Utah (KSTU) -- Additional details were released by Ogden police Saturday on an officer-involved shooting,

where a man with alleged ties to white supremacist prison gangs threatened two officers with a softball-sized rock,

resulting in police shooting him dead. 

According to Randy Watt, Ogden Police Department Chief of Police, Officers on patrol were approached by two

individuals, who said that a male suspect, later identified as Christopher William Parrish, 33, was acting strangely,

and acting as if he wanted to fight people. 

The incident happened near a Walmart on 1959 Wall Ave., Watt stated. 

When officers located and confronted Parrish, he could not be understood when he spoke, and allegedly tried to

drive away from police but crashed a car he was driving, which was not registered to him. 

Parrish was then chased on-foot by officers to the area of 21st Street, Watt stated. 

At that point, Watt said Parrish picked up a softball sized rock, and â€œaggressivelyâ€ moved toward the officers. 

Police tried to deploy two tasers on Parrish, but they did not work, Watt said. Parrish allegedly continued to

advance toward officers with the rock, though it was unclear if he struck either officer. 

Watt stated that after the tasers were not effective, officers used their firearms on Parrish. Emergency crews

arrived at the scene shortly after, but could not revive him and he succumbed to his injuries. 

Police took several hours to positively identify Parrish, Watt stated. When he was identified, police said they

discovered that he was a parole fugitive from Arizona. 

A press release made by the Ogden Police Department stated that Parrish had a no-bail warrant for vehicle

burglary and had been convicted in the past for felony burglary and felony aggravated assault with a deadly

weapon in Arizona and Oregon. 

Watt stated that Parrish had tattoos on his body that indicated he was a member of white supremacist prison

gangs, called the Supreme Allied Warriors and the Sacred Arian Culture. 

Both officers who shot Parrish were put on administrative leave while an investigation was being conducted, Watt

stated. Body cameras were worn by at least one officer during the incident, Watt said, and authorities were working

Please note: This content carries a strict local market embargo. If you share the same market as the contributor of

to go over the footage. 

this article, you may not use it on any platform. 
 
 

Report: Ogden police justified in November - Deseret News, The (Salt
Lake City, UT) - March 14, 2019
March 14, 2019 | Deseret News, The (Salt Lake City, UT) | Annie Knox Deseret News

By Annie Knox

Deseret News

SALT  LAKE CIT Y - Two Ogden officers were legally justified in shooting a man a total of five times
after he charged at them with a rock in November, according to the Weber County Attorney's
Office.

T he findings, released Wednesday in response to a publics records request, conclude that 33-year-
Christopher William Parrish ignored officers' repeated commands to drop the rock after
old Christopher William Parrish
running from them in a field.

Parrish "could have seriously injured or even killed" the officer nearest him "if he had struck him in
the head at close range," Weber County Attorney Christopher Allred wrote in his analysis of the
Nov. 9 shooting. Another officer also had reason to use deadly force to prevent his colleague or
others from being seriously injured or killed, Allred found.

Last week, Allred's office cleared Ogden officers in two other fatal police shootings that also
happened late last year.

Investigators looking at Parrish's death considered body camera footage from three Ogden police
officers, plus interviews with other officer witnesses and an employee with Utah's pardons and
parole agency.

Parrish's brother, Justin Parrish, on Wednesday called the officers "quick to take a life and ask
questions later. T hey can say justified till they are blue in the face but they will have to answer in
court to my lawyer," he said in a message.

Police have said the chain of events began about 6:45 p.m. on the November Friday at Walmart,
1959 Wall Ave. A man told an officer that someone tried to fight him in the store's parking lot, and
the officer later identified the aggressor as Parrish, who left the lot in a red pickup truck. T he
officer followed Parrish and tried to make a traffic stop, but when he tried to verify Parrish's
identity, he gave a different name, Allred wrote. Parrish became "agitated and aggressive," and
sped away, coming to a rest in a dirt field and nearly hitting the officer on the way, according to
one witness account.

When officers chased him, he picked up the softball-sized rock, yelled an expletive and ran through
a field, eventually turning toward Ogden officer Tyson Embley "in a fighting posture." Embley tried
to use a stun gun from 20 feet away, but it had no effect, Allred found.

Another officer, Brandon Sevenski, came within 7 feet of Parrish, who lunged at him, Allred found.
Embley told investigators he believed his colleague could be harmed, so he fired one shot. As
Parrish charged Sevenski with the rock raised in his right hand, Sevenski was afraid for his safety
and for the officers arround him, so he shot Parrish four times from about 6 feet away, Allred
wrote. Parrish was pronounced dead at the scene.

"It's fairly rare to see an officer, if they're going to shoot, to shoot simply one time," Allred said
Wednesday. "T hey'll usually shoot more than that to limit the threat." His review does not indicate
where the bullets struck Parrish.

T he two officers were not injured and have returned to work, said Ogden Police Lt. Will Farr. T hey
were on paid administrative leave during the investigation.

Ogden police said in November Parrish has a criminal history in Oregon and Arizona that includes
violent felonies, adding he has tattoos indicating his affiliation with white supremacist prison gangs.

Last week, two officers who shot and killed Richard Galvan, 37, were cleared, and so was an officer
who fatally shot 18-year-old Anthony Ray Borden-Cortez.

Email: aknox@deseretnews.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2019 Deseret News Publishing  Company

 
4/26/2019

Document View | Access World News | NewsBank

Man charged Ogden officers with a rock, police chief says after fatal shooting

November 10, 2018 | Standard-Examiner (Ogden, UT)
Author: Mark Shenefelt | Section: Police Fire
326 Words

OGDEN — A man shot to death by police Friday night had charged officers with a softball-size rock, Ogden Police

Chief Randy Watt said. 

Police identified the man as Christopher William Parrish, 33, who last lived in Arizona. At a press conference

Saturday afternoon, Watt said police do not know why Parrish was in Ogden. 

Parrish has a criminal record in Arizona and Oregon, including a conviction for aggravated assault with a deadly

weapon, police said in a press release Saturday. 

Parrish had tattoos signifying two white supremacist prison gangs, Soldiers of Aryan Culture and Silent Aryan

Warriors, Watt said. 

Watt said police were called to the Walmart at 20th Street and Wall Avenue Friday evening for a report that a man

was threatening customers. He left in a vehicle and police pulled him over. 

The man gave vague information and then sped away, crashed, and ran away, the chief said. In a yard off 21st

Street, Parrish picked up a rock, turned and "rapidly and violently attacked" the two officers. 

They fired Tasers at him but the stun guns were ineffective, Watt said. He continued to attack and they both fired

their service handguns, killing him, the chief said. 

Neither officer was injured, according to Watt. He said he did not know whether Parrish ever struck the officers

with the rock. 

"These things are unfortunate, but they do happen," Watt said. 

The chief said he did not know whether Parrish made any racially tinged threats in the store or against the officers.

Watt said all officers involved in the case Friday are white. 

https://infoweb.newsbank.com/apps/news/document-view?p=AWNB&t=continent%3ANorth%2BAmerica%21North%2BAmerica/continent%3ANorth%2BAmerica… 1/2

4/26/2019

Document View | Access World News | NewsBank

The chief said police notified Parrish's mother of the death. 

"We express our condolences to the family," Watt said. 

The Utah Office of the Medical Examiner performed an autopsy on Parrish's body Saturday afternoon, Watt said.

The chief said toxicology tests are pending. 

Per procedure, the two officers have been placed on paid administrative leave pending an internal affairs

investigation and a police shooting review by the Weber County Attorney's Office, Watt said.

© Copyright (c) 2018, Standard-Examiner

https://infoweb.newsbank.com/apps/news/document-view?p=AWNB&t=continent%3ANorth%2BAmerica%21North%2BAmerica/continent%3ANorth%2BAmerica… 2/2

 

 
With two people shot and killed by Utah officers this weekend —including a popular Glendale hip hop artist —2018

is on track to be the state’s deadliest year for police shootings in recent memory. 

Since January, police have shot at 24 people, killing 14. Only in 2014 and 2007 did police kill that many people,

according to Salt Lake Tribune records dating back 15 years. 

On Friday, police fired on men in Ogden and in Salt Lake City, killing both of them. They are the ninth and tenth

people shot in the past month by police in Utah. 

Cody Belgard —better known as the musician See Smoke, according to a number of online memorials —was shot

by police at 8 p.m. Friday near 800 N. Sir Patrick Drive, said Sgt. Brandon Shearer. Friends shared videos of his

music, including the song “Creep Wit Me,” an homage to the neighborhoods and cities of the Salt Lake Valley. 

Shearer said Friday night that he didn’t know why police were in the area before they shot Belgard, 30. Salt Lake

City police released Belgard’s name on Saturday and said there would be no further updates over the weekend.

Under an order by Mayor Jackie Biskupski, body camera footage will be released in 10 business days, if it exists. 

West Valley City Police are investigating Belgard’s shooting, under the valley-wide protocol that mandates an

outside agency investigate police shootings. 

The other shooting was in Ogden, where police shot 33-year-old Christopher William Parrish. 

Ogden Police Chief Randy Watt said in a Saturday news conference that two customers approached an on-duty

police officer in the Walmart at 1959 Wall Ave. at about 6:45 p.m. Friday, reporting that a man was acting “manic

and threatening” and saying he wanted to fight people. 

The officer spotted Parrish driving away, followed him and stopped him. He wouldn’t give the officer much

information, Watt said, and when the officer asked him to get out of his car, he instead drove away “rapidly.”

Parrish crashed in the road’s shoulder, then ran away across the road and into a yard, Watt said. 

Parrish picked up a “softball-sized” rock and charged two officers who had chased him, Watt said, “rapidly and

violently” attacking them. The officers tried their Tasers, but when those didn’t subdue Parrish, they fired their

guns, he said. Parrish died at the scene. 

Watt said he was still reviewing the evidence and couldn’t say whether Parrish touched the officers. Police are

waiting for the results of toxicology tests on Parrish, he added. 

Parrish had no known connections to the Ogden area aside from the car he was driving, which had been loaned to

him by a city resident, Watt said. Police were questioning that person Saturday. 

Parrish had been convicted of crimes in Arizona and Oregon, including burglary and aggravated assault. His last

address was in Arizona, where there was a warrant for his arrest for parole violations, but he was listed as a

missing person out of Montana. Based on Parrish’s tattoos, Watt said, police believe he was connected to two

white supremacist prison gangs. 

shooting. 

The officers who shot Parrish are on administrative leave while Weber County District Attorney investigates the

The frequency of shootings this year is unusually high in Utah, where police fatally shot five people in 2017 and

eight in 2016. 

No charges have been filed in any of Utah’s 24 shootings by police this year; 13 remain under investigation. 

Dave Newlin, an organizer with Utah Against Police Brutality, said he believes there needs to be increased

accountability for officers who use deadly force. 

“There’s no real oversight, and there’s no real consequences for police officers who do shoot people,” he said. “...

This is going to become more consistent unless we do something about it.” 

Newlin said he and other police watchdog advocates are meeting with Salt Lake City council members this week to

propose a new citizen oversight board to review deadly force and complaints involving police. Salt Lake City’s

existing Civilian Review Board can review police actions and make recommendations to the department, but their

decisions are not binding. 

“They have absolutely no power to do anything at all,” Newlin said. “They offer a limited recommendation that

everyone can just ignore. It goes out into the ether and nobody pays any attention to it. What we do see are more

and more police shootings every year. Until we have real teeth [for] our investigative oversight body, we’re just

going to see this happen over and over again.” 

Bret Rawson, general counsel for the Utah Fraternal Order of Police, acknowledged that the past month has been

exceptionally deadly. But he cautioned that justification for deadly force is a nuanced legal issue and review

requires law enforcement expertise. 

“I would be concerned about any oversight from anybody that isn’t specifically trained to understand the manner in

which law enforcement officers have been instructed to undertake their duties,” Rawson said. 

“Usually what that means is we need folks that are in law enforcement —executive level individuals who have been

through the training, who understand the dangers and specifically the ways that the state has directed officers to

conduct themselves when facing [violent threats],” Rawson said. 

Apart from Friday night’s shootings, police have killed 12 other people so far this year: 

* Jason Robert Whittle, 26, was shot by Unified Police who were investigating a domestic violence report near 1400

West and Stone Ridge Lane on Oct. 22 in Riverton. Police said Whittle was threatening a woman with a knife. 

* Andrey Tkachenko, 23, was chased into a Salt Lake City alley by a fugitive apprehension team Oct. 18, police said.

As officers confronted Tkachenko, one UPD officer and one Saratoga Springs officer opened fire, killing him.

Investigators found a handgun at the scene, police said. 

* James Lyle Kuehn, 61, was suspected of using a knife to try to rob a restaurant Oct. 17 in Kearns, but fled when

an employee swung a large cheese knife at him, police said. A witness followed Kuehn to a nearby house,

according to jail documents, and directed police there. UPD officers confronted Kuehn, who did not follow their

commands to drop his knife, police wrote. Officers shot Kuehn after a Taser did not subdue him, police wrote. 

* Jacob E. Albrethsen, 17, was shot Oct. 15 by Orem police who were investigating a reported “family problem,”

officers said. Albrethsen threatened officers with a knife, police said. 

* Diamonte Riviore, 22, was shot and killed Oct. 11 by a West Jordan officer who was investigating a domestic

violence report. Police said Riviore threatened officers with a knife. 

* Abe Martinez, 44, walked out of an Arizona halfway house June 16 after serving prison time for drug trafficking

and stabbing a jail guard. The next day he traveled to his grandmother’s home in South Salt Lake, where he killed

her and critically injured her husband. SWAT officers who were gathered outside the home heard screams and

fatally shot Martinez through a window. 

* Zane James, 18, was suspected of robbing two Sandy grocery stores May 29 when he was spotted by an off-duty

Cottonwood Heights officer who was driving to work, police said. After a chase, James crashed near 6700 S. 2200

East, police said. Officers told prosecutors who investigated the shooting that James ran away and began

reaching into his pockets and clothes despite officers’ orders to stop and show his hands. Cottonwood Heights

Officer Casey Davies fired twice, hitting James both times. 

* Michael Glad, 23, was suspected of robbing a Taylorsville convenience store May 28 when an officer stopped

him. Glad pointed a gun at the officer and stole his police truck, body camera video showed. Two other West

Jordan Police officers fired at the truck as Glad tried to drive away, according to report from prosecutors. Officers

later discovered that Glad’s gun was a pellet gun. 

* Delorean Pikyavit, 32, was shot April 17 by Salt Lake City police after his girlfriend went to a neighbor’s house and

reported a domestic dispute at her home in Sugar House. Officers smelled natural gas at the house and said

Pikyavit threatened to ignite a lighter, so they turned off the gas to the house. After a standoff, Pikyavit came

outside with a knife and scissors; officers fired on him as he stepped off the porch, one shooting a rifle and the

other firing “less-lethal” sponge bullets. 

* Lonnie Marcel Bowen, 41, was shot April 17 by Unified Police as he held a knife to a woman’s throat in his truck in

Magna, police said. UPD Officer Trever McLelland fired five shots into the driver’s side window, killing Bowen. 

* Elijah James Smith, 20, was shot April 8, when West Valley City police were searching for someone suspected of

stealing from a cellphone store on Redwood Road. Smith ran from police, who found him hiding in a garage. When

officers yelled at him to put his hands up, he raised one hand and pulled a screwdriver out of his pocket with the

other. Officer Nicholaus Green fired three shots at Smith, killing him. 

* Bryan Keith Liles, 31, was shot March 13 by a federal agent who was searching for another man at a parking lot

near a Sandy train station. When officers asked Liles for his ID, he said he would get it out of his car. He got into a

BMW and began driving it as an officer reached in to stop him. Another agent, Brian Embley of the Bureau of

Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, fired on Liles. Liles stopped the car, and Embley told him to put up his hands.

Instead Liles reached for the floor of the car, and Embley fired on him again. 

Credit: By Erin Alberty 
 
 

Weber County Attorney rules 2 Ogden police - Standard-Examiner
(Ogden, UT) - March 15, 2019
March 15, 2019 | Standard-Examiner (Ogden, UT) | Jacob Scholl

OGDEN — T he Weber County Attorney has ruled that two Ogden Police officers were justified
when they shot and killed a man who charged at officers with a rock after fleeing from police in
November.

In a letter dated March 5, county attorney Christopher Allred told Ogden Police Chief Randy Watt
that officers Brandon Sevenski and Tyson Embley acted within their rights when they shot 33-year-
old Christopher William Parrish

Christopher William Parrish on Nov. 9, 2018.

T he report indicates the incident began when Ogden Police Officer Jordan Gustin was approached
by a man at a Walmart located at 1959 Wall Ave. in Ogden. T he man told Gustin that he was
approached by another man — who was identified as Parrish — in the parking lot who challenged
him to a fight in an "extremely confrontational manner," according to the report.

After the confrontation, Parrish walked into the Walmart. T he man entered the store as well and
reported the incident to employees. Parrish was reportedly still in the store when the man told
Gustin about the incident.

T he man also gave Gustin a description of Parrish's pickup, which pulled into the southbound lanes
of Wall Avenue before Gustin initiated a traffic stop. T he vehicle turned west onto 21st Street and
came to a stop.

Gustin asked him about the confrontation in the parking lot, and Parrish said it was the other man
who was acting strange. Parrish also said that he did not have a drivers license on him, and
identified himself as "Adam McCoy."

T he report notes that Parrish was cooperative at the beginning of the traffic stop, but became
agitated and aggressive when asked again about his identity. Parrish claimed he was being
harassed and slid over to the passenger seat of the pickup. Gustin asked for his social security
number to confirm his identity, to which Parrish said he didn't know the number.

Gustin then asked Parrish to step out of the car. Parrish motioned to the driver's side as if he was
complying, but instead started the pickup, put it in gear and drove away. A witness to the traffic
stop said Parrish nearly hit Gustin with the pickup as he drove away.

T he pickup went between 100-200 yards on 20th Street before sliding off the roadway while trying
to make a turn and hitting a guide wire and fence.

Gustin drove to where the pickup crashed and radioed for additional patrol units, saying the
suspect was out of the pickup and running away. At some point, Gustin briefly turned off his body

camera to review the footage, then turned it back on.

Embley arrived in the area of 20th Street shortly after Gustin said over the radio the suspect had
crashed the car and was on foot.

OPD Officer Jarrad Pullam pulled up next to Embley's car and the two later found Parrish lying
against a dirt pile south of the car crash. T hey both commanded Parrish to show his hands. Parrish
picked up a rock, stood up and responded with "f- — you guys" before running away from officers
going south through a field.

Pullam and Embley went after Parrish, who ran south across 21st Street and south on Union
Avenue into a wooded area just west of Union. Parrish circled back around north toward the
officers. Sevenski came from the west in his marked patrol car and stopped on the south curb of
21st Street with his car pointing to the southeast.

When Sevenski parked his police lights were on, which helped him identify the man he was seeing
as the same man who fled from police moments before. He then got out of his vehicle.

As Parrish circled around to the north, Pullam told Embley that "he's coming for you." Embley, who
had his gun drawn with a flashlight attached to it, found Parrish kneeling behind a fencepost. He
again commanded Parrish to show him his hands, and Parrish began moving toward Embley in a
fighting stance. Embley then holstered his gun and pulled out a T aser. He then shot the Taser at
Parrish, who was roughly 20 feet away, and the Taser was ineffective, the report said.

Embley then pulled out his gun once again. During an interview with investigators, Embley said he
estimated that Parrish was roughly 3 to 7 feet from Sevenski when he "reared his arm back" with
the rock in his hand. Fearing for Sevenski's life, Embley said he shot one time at Parrish, who fell
face first into a patch of grass with his hands laying under him.

Sevenski said during his interview that he got out of his car and heard the Taser deploy, but it was
not effective. At this time, he observed Parrish walking slowly and appearing agitated, as if "he was
no longer trying to get away."

When he exited his car, Parrish saw him and began running toward him. Sevenski then saw the rock
in Parrish's right hand, prompting him to pull out his gun. Sevenski then moved in a "C type pattern"
because he was afraid that if he used his gun he'd be shooting in the direction of other officers.

Sevenski described Parrish as being "in an attack mode" and was no longer trying to get away.
Parrish continued to run toward Sevenski when the officer fired his gun four times, causing Parrish
to fall to the ground. Sevenski said Parrish was roughly six feet away from him when he began
shooting. He said he thought Embley had fired shots, but did not know how many times.

When Parrish went down, his hands were covered by his body. A K9 unit was at the scene during
the chase and shooting, and the K9 dragged the man by his jacket until his hands were visible.
Officers then handcuffed Parrish and checked for a pulse. Parrish was pronounced dead at the
scene.

T he report said that Sevenski was wearing a body camera, but he was not able to turn it on until
after the shooting took place. Embley was not wearing a body camera at the time of the shooting.
T he report says that Pullam and Gustin were wearing body cameras and recording at the time of
the shooting.

Included in the report is an autopsy summary from the Utah State Medical Examiner's Office, who
recovered a bullet in Parrish's right chest wall as well as bullet fragments from his left thigh. T he
report does not say how many times Parrish was shot or which bullet caused his death.

T he medical examiner also found tattoos "on most of the body, legs, hands, arms, chest and
torso, neck and head." Two such tattoos included a "White Pride" tattoo on his neck and a swastika
tattoo on his right lower torso.

Over a week after the shooting, police received a call from one of Parrish's family members who
said that Parrish had been in Arizona for the past 8-10 years and was originally from Oregon. She
also said that Parrish did not want to go back to jail and she thought he was living with a friend in
Ogden.

T he woman's husband, Parrish's brother, questioned why the police killed his brother "because he
had a rock?"

Ogden Police Chief Randy Watt said Thursday that both Embley and Sevenski returned to work on
Dec. 20 and Jan. 1, respectively.

Allred's decision comes weeks after the rulings on two other Ogden police shootings were made
public, as well as a decision made in Davis County regarding a police shooting in Clinton.

T he county attorney's office ruled in early February the two other 2018 shootings that took place
Nov. 30 and Dec. 4 were justified, resulting in the deaths of 37-year-old Richard Galvan and 18-
year-old Ogden resident Anthony Borden-Cortez, respectively.

T he Davis County Attorney's Office determined in December they would decline to prosecute Sgt.
David Skinner of the Syracuse Police Department, who was the only officer listed who fired shots
at 64-year-old Allen Scott Culpepper, a Clinton resident.

Copyrig ht (c) 2019, Standard-Examiner

 
Prosecutors: Ogden officers justified in fatal - Associated Press State
Wire: Utah (UT) - March 16, 2019
March 16, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Utah (UT)

OGDEN, Utah (AP) — Utah prosecutors say two Ogden police officers had justification to fatally
shoot a man who charged at them with a rock last year.

T he Standard-Examiner reports that Weber County Attorney Christopher Allred has determined
that officers Brandon Sevenski and Tyson Embley acted within their rights when they shot 33-year-
old Christopher William Parrish

Christopher William Parrish on Nov. 9, 2018.

Authorities say Parrish had fled a traffic stop, but he crashed a short distance away. He then fled
on foot, and officers chased after him.

Ogden Police Chief Randy Watt says both officers have returned to work.

___

Information from: Standard-Examiner, http://www.standard.net

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 

Deputy cleared by grand jury in Feb. 2018 on-duty - Pike County News-
Watchman (Waverly, OH) - June 5, 2018
June 5, 2018 | Pike County News-Watchman (Waverly, OH) | Stephanie Stanley Assistant Editor

A Pike County Sheriff's deputy has been cleared by Pike County Grand Jury in an on-duty shooting
that occurred on Feb. 1, 2018.

"Deputy Eric Zirneskie, of the Pike County Sheriff's Office, was cleared in the on-duty shooting of
James Michael Burks," said Pike County Prosecutor Rob Junk. "T he Pike County Grand Jury returned
a No Bill on May 24, 2018."

According to Junk, "as standard procedure", all officer-involved shootings are presented by the Pike
County Prosecutor's Office to the Pike County Grand Jury "for review."

"T his case was presented to the Pike County Grand Jury on May 24, 2018, and the Grand Jury
declined to issue any charges against Zirneskie for his actions," said Junk.

According to Junk, on Feb. 1, 2018, at around 4 a.m., Zirneskie attempted to conduct a vehicle stop
at Morgan's Fork Road and state Route 124 after noticing the vehicle had a fictitious registration.

"Zirneskie had his dispatcher run the vehicle's license tag, and it came back as belonging to a
completely different vehicle. T he vehicle pulled into a mobile home at 13334 state Route 124.
Several individuals exited the vehicle and ran into the mobile home," said Junk. "During Zirneskie's
investigation of the vehicle, he encountered James M . B urks
James M . Burks , 35, who had outstanding warrants
for his arrest. Burks attacked Zirneskie multiple times rather than submit to an arrest."

Junk says Zirneskie "at one point shot Burks with his T ASER, but it was ineffective."

"Burks continued to fight and resist, and the struggle culminated in Burks getting Zirneskie in a
headlock and attempting to strangle and choke him," said Junk. "Zirneskie, feeling himself losing
consciousness, attempted to drive-stun Burks with his TASER to stop the attack, but to no avail."

A drive-stun, says Junk, is a term used to describe "when an officer places a TASER directly against
a suspect without discharging the darts."

"At that point, the TASER having no effect upon Burks and Zirneskie feeling himself slip away, drew
and discharged his duty weapon, a Glock Model 22, .40 caliber pistol, striking Burks with two
rounds," said Junk.

T he shooting investigation was conducted by Franklin County Sheriff Dallas Baldwin's Officer-
Involved/Critical Incident T eam, said Junk.

"T his team of veteran detectives performed multiple interviews and directed the analysis of the

physical evidence, including DNA and ballistics analysis, taken from the scene," said Junk, who
shared the following "conclusion" which was provided by the investigatory team:

"T his investigation has revealed that based on physical evidence and statements from the
witnesses and Deputy Zirneskie, Deputy Zirneskie fired his weapon to protect himself from physical
harm. Deputy Zirneskie was under attack from James Burks at the time he fired his weapon.
Deputy Zirneskie was alone at the time of the attack and he knew that back-up was several
minutes away.

"Deputy Zirneskie attempted to use less than lethal means (T ASER) to stop the assault, according
to Deputy Zirneskie he did not perceive any other option than the use of deadly force at the time
of the shooting.

"Under these circumstances, Deputy Zirneskie acted reasonably and the force was immediately
necessary to protect his life. It is the opinion of the Franklin County Sheriff's Office Detectives
investigating this case that Deputy Zirneskie had no other reasonable alternative but to use deadly
force. T his investigation shows that Deputy Zirneskie acted reasonably and that no criminal
conduct occurred with regard to Deputy Zirneskie's actions."

Junk says he reviewed the report and evidence provided by the Franklin County Sheriff's detectives,
and that he agrees with their findings.

"Based on the facts and evidence that I have reviewed, and the fact that I presented this case to
the Grand Jury myself, I am more than satisfied that Zirneskie used appropriate and necessary
force to defend his life and that he was legally justified in his actions," said Junk. "I want to thank the
members of the Franklin County Sheriff's Officer-Involved/Critical Incident Team for the
thoroughness and professionalism they demonstrated in the investigation of this case. I was very
impressed with their work."

Burks, said Junk, "was a convicted felon who had served prison time in the State of Kentucky for
Burglary."

"T here were two outstanding warrants for Burks' arrest from the Pike County Court for Domestic
Violence and Driving Under Suspension," said Junk. "He had a lengthy criminal history, and had two
separate swastika tattoos on his person. He was known to the Pike County Sheriff's Office
through multiple complaints about violent, abusive behavior, which resulted in one of the
outstanding warrants."

Junk added that he feels the incident "is a reminder that there are extremely dangerous people out
there who are willing to attack law enforcement without provocation."

"If Burks had simply submitted to Deputy Zirneskie's lawful commends, he would be alive today.
Burks' actions, not Zirneskie's, determined the outcome of the events of Feb. 1, 2018," he said.

Copyrig ht © 2018 The Pike County News Watchman, APG Media of Ohio LLC. All rights reserved.

 
Deputy's name released in fatal officer-involved - Pike County News-
Watchman (Waverly, OH) - February 9, 2018
February 9, 2018 | Pike County News-Watchman (Waverly, OH) | Staff Report

T he identity of the Pike County Sheriff's Office deputy involved in the officer-involved fatal shooting
in Pike County on Feb. 1 has been released.

T he deputy, Eric Zirneskie, 25, has been employed with the sheriff's office since August 2016. Prior
to employment with the Pike County Sheriff's Office, Zirneskie was employed part-time for the
Put-In-Bay Police Department and held additional reserve posts in other locations.

Per union contract, Zirneskie has been placed on paid administrative leave until the officer-involved
shooting investigation, led by BCI Crime Scene and the Franklin County Sheriff's Office, is
completed and it is determined he can return to work.

James M . Burks , 35, of Peebles, took place following what began as a

T he fatal shooting of James M . B urks
traffic stop on Route 124, Piketon, in the early morning hours on T hursday, Feb. 1. According to
Pike County Prosecutor Rob Junk, Burks held two active warrants through Pike County Court,
including driving under DUI suspension and domestic violence.

Pike County Sheriff Charles Reader stated that the incident began when Zirneskie attempted to
stop a vehicle in the 13000 block of Route 124 at 3:59 a.m. T he vehicle turned into the drive at
13324 Route 124, according to Reader, and three subjects allegedly fled from the vehicle.

"T he deputy (Zirneskie) gave chase on foot where he made contact with one of the fleeing
subjects and a physical altercation and/or incident took place that ultimately resulted in an officer-
involved shooting where the suspect died due to the injuries he sustained," Reader stated.

Following the incident, Zirneskie was transported to Adena/Pike Medical Center, where he was
medically treated and released.

T he number of times Burks was shot has not been released.

For updates, follow newswatchman.com.

Copyrig ht © 2018 The Pike County News Watchman, APG Media of Ohio LLC. All rights reserved.

 
Sheriff: Deputy fatally shoots suspect during - Associated Press State
Wire: Ohio (OH) - February 1, 2018
February 1, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Ohio (OH)

WAVERLY, Ohio (AP) — A county sheriff says one of his deputies fatally shot a male suspect during
an altercation after an attempted traffic stop in Ohio.

Pike County Sheriff Charles Reader says the suspect was shot around 4 a.m. Thursday on State
Route 124 in the southern Ohio county. Sheriff's officials later identified the man killed as 35-year-
old James M . B urks

James M . Burks , of Peebles.

Reader says a deputy attempted to stop a vehicle and three suspects fled after the vehicle pulled
into a driveway. He says the deputy chased them on foot, made contact with the suspect and shot
him during an altercation.

T he deputy was treated at a hospital and released. Authorities didn't immediately identify him.

T he Ohio Bureau of Criminal Investigation and the Franklin County Sheriff's Office are investigating
the shooting.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

Pike County deputy cleared in killing - Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) -
June 6, 2018 - page 2B
June 6, 2018 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Holly Zachariah | Page 2B

A Pike County grand jury recently cleared a sheriff's deputy involved in the fatal shooting of a
suspect this year.

James M . Burks  after a short foot chase and a
Deputy Erik Zirneskie shot and killed 35-year-old James M . B urks
struggle following a traffic stop just before 4 a.m. on Feb. 1. During the struggle, Burks, who had
outstanding felony warrants for his arrest, choked the deputy.

Zirneskie, who was without backup during the fight, had fired his Taser to stop Burks but it didn't
work, according to the internal investigation of the incident, conducted by a team from the Franklin
County sheriff's office.

Zirneskie, who has been with the sheriff's office since August 2016, shot Burks twice, Pike County
Prosecutor Rob Junk said.

hzachariah@dispatch.com

@hollyzachariah

Copyrig ht 2018 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 
OFFICER-INVOLVED SHOOTING/PIKE COUNTY - Deputy - Columbus
Dispatch, The (OH) - February 8, 2018 - page 6B
February 8, 2018 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Holly Zachariah | Page 6B

T he Pike County sheriff's office has identified Erik Zirneskie as the deputy who shot and killed a
man after a foot chase and struggle last week.

Zirneskie, 25, has been with the sheriff's office since August 2016, according to his personnel file.

As is routine in an officer-involved shooting, he has been placed on paid leave since the death of
James M . Burks . Pike County Sheriff Charles Reader called in an outside agency to
35-year-old James M . B urks
handle an independent investigation into the deputy's actions that night, which also is standard
practice. T he Franklin County sheriff's office is doing that.

Reader said last week that Zirneskie had seen a suspicious vehicle just before 4 a.m. on Feb. 1 in
the parking lot of a closed business on Route 124 in the western part of Pike County. T he car
pulled out and Zirneskie followed and tried to make a traffic stop.

Reader said the car pulled into a private driveway and three people inside scattered and ran. He
said Burks was among them.

Zirneskie gave chase and the two scuffled, Reader said. Burks was shot during the scuffle and died
at the scene, the sheriff said. No one has said how many times Burks was shot. Zirneskie was
treated at a hospital and released.

Burks had a history of violence and two outstanding warrants for his arrest. An obituary said his
survivors include five daughters and a son.

According to Zirneskie's personnel file, he has previously worked part time for the Put-In-Bay
Police Department on South Bass Island on Lake Erie and held a couple of reserve posts
elsewhere.

A department use-of-force log says that during his tenure, Zirneskie has used his Taser and
pepper spray in separate incidents.

His file notes that his initial probationary status with the sheriff's office has been extended because
he has been late for work and has not maintained his personal appearance or his cruiser.

hzachariah@dispatch.com

@hollyzachariah

Copyrig ht 2018 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 
Pike County sheriff IDs deputy who shot, killed - Dayton Daily News
(OH) - February 11, 2018 - page B9
February 11, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Holly Zachariah The Columbus Dispatch | Page B9

T he Pike County sheriff’s office has identified Erik Zirneskie as the deputy who shot and killed a
man after a foot chase and struggle last week.

Zirneskie, 25, has been with the sheriff’s office since August 2016, according to his personnel file.

As is routine in an officer-involved shooting, he has been placed on paid leave since the death of
James M . Burks . Pike County Sheriff Charles Reader called in an outside agency to
35-year-old James M . B urks
handle an independent investigation into the deputy’s actions that night, which also is standard
practice. T he Franklin County sheriff’s office is doing that.

Reader said last week that Zirneskie had seen a suspicious vehicle just before 4 a.m. Feb. 1 in the
parking lot of a closed business on Ohio 124 in the western part of Pike County. T he car pulled out
and Zirneskie followed and tried to make a traffic stop.

Reader said the car pulled into a private driveway and three people inside scattered and ran. He
said Burks was among them.

Zirneskie gave chase, and the two scuffled, Reader said. Burks was shot during the scuffle and died
at the scene, the sheriff said. No information has been released on how many times Burks was
shot. Zirneskie was treated at a local hospital and released.

Burks had a history of violence and two outstanding warrants for his arrest. An obituary said his
survivors include five daughters and a son.

According to Zirneskie’s personnel file, he has previously worked part time for the Put-In-Bay Police
Department on South Bass Island on Lake Erie and held a couple of reserve posts elsewhere.

A department use-of-force log says that during his tenure, Zirneskie has used his Taser and
pepper spray in separate incidents.

His file notes that his initial probationary status with the sheriff’s office has been extended because
of his being late for work, his personal appearance, and his inability to keep his cruiser clean and
maintained.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 
Traffic stop in Pike County leads to officer- - Athens Messenger, The
(OH) - February 3, 2018
February 3, 2018 | Athens Messenger, The (OH) | Staff Report

Note: T his story appears in the Sunday, Feb. 4 newspaper on Page A3.

PIKET ON — What reportedly began as a traffic stop on Route 124 near Piketon early T hursday
morning became deadly, ending up in the fatal shooting of a man by a Pike County deputy.

On Thursday afternoon, Pike County Prosecuting Attorney Rob Junk confirmed the man shot and
killed was James M . B urks
through Pike County Court, one for driving under a DUI suspension and one for domestic violence.

James M . Burks , 35, of Peebles. According to Junk, Burks had two active warrants

T he name of the deputy has not yet been released.

According to Pike County Sheriff Charles Reader, the incident began when a Pike County deputy
attempted to make a traffic stop on Route 124 early Thursday morning at 3:59 a.m. T he sheriff
reported the other vehicle pulled off the road and three subjects fled from the vehicle.

"T he deputy gave chase on foot where he made contact with one of the fleeing subjects and a
physical altercation and/or incident took place that ultimately resulted in an officer-involved
shooting where the suspect died due to the injuries he sustained," Reader stated.

Reader said that he was contacted at 4:17 a.m. along with the chief deputy and other deputies to
respond to the scene.

"Upon arrival to the scene, I contacted BCI Crime Scene Division and the Franklin County Sheriff's
Office (Officer Involved Shooting Investigative Unit) to respond and take over the situation,"
Reader stated. "T he Waverly Police Department, Piketon Police Department, Pike County
Prosecuting Attorney Rob Junk and the Ohio State Highway Patrol also responded to the scene."

T he sheriff said the deputy was transported to Adena/Pike Medical Center, where he was treated
and released. Reader said the deputy has been placed on paid administrative leave as per a union
contract until the investigation is completed and it is determined that he can return to work.

A nearby residence was entered by the Pike County Sheriff's Office Special Response T eam,
Reader said, assisted by the Ohio State Highway Patrol. Two males and three females were
reportedly removed from the residence and transported to the sheriff's office to be interviewed,
Reader said.

T he sheriff said the investigation has been turned over to the BCI Crime Scene and the Franklin
County Sheriff's Office.

"T his is to insure that the investigation is completely independent of my office," Reader stated. "My
thoughts and prayers go out to my deputy and his family and to the family of the deceased."

Copyrig ht © 2018 Athens Messeng er, APG Media of Ohio LLC. All rights reserved.

 

UPDATE: Three law enforcement officers cleared in - Jamestown Sun,
The (ND) - March 20, 2018
March 20, 2018 | Jamestown Sun, The (ND) | Chris Olson | News

March 20--T hree local law enforcement officers who shot and killed a Jamestown man after he
fired a weapon at them last month will not face criminal charges.

Stutsman County State's Attorney Fritz Fremgen determined Friday that Jamestown police officer
Logan Hord and Stutsman County deputies Daniel White and Casey Yunck will not be charged after
firing their weapons when suspect Michael Schief f er
pursuit.

M ichael Schief f er fired a gun at them at the end of the

Fremgen made his decision to not seek criminal charges against the law enforcement officers
after reviewing a report about the incident done by North Dakota Bureau of Criminal Investigation.
Jamestown Chief of Police Scott Edinger released the memo on Fremgen's decision to T he Sun on
Monday.

"Schieffer had committed a felony involving violence and the officers were justified in using deadly
force to effectuate Schieffer's arrest," Fremgen said in the memo.

Stutsman County Sheriff Chad Kaiser said White and Yunck should return to work on Wednesday.
Edinger said Hord was back to work on administrative duty and should be back to full duty in the
near future. Kaiser and Edinger both said the officers involved in the shooting were cleared of any
policy violations through separate agency internal investigations and by the BCI investigation.

Kaiser said Monday that having White and Yunck out essentially left the office short one shift for
almost a month.

"It's awesome to have them back," he said.

Edinger said Monday, based on the internal reviews, that he couldn't see how the officers could
have taken any other action.

"T hey really did everything they could to avoid a shooting," he said.

On Feb. 21 a Jamestown police officer saw Schieffer driving and knew Schieffer's driver's license
was suspended. After confirming there was a warrant for his arrest, the officer attempted a traffic
stop. Schieffer did not stop and a pursuit began. During the pursuit, Schieffer fired a handgun four
times at pursuing law enforcement vehicles.

T he pursuit that began in Jamestown ended near Woodworth when Schieffer's car got stuck in a
snowbank.

Schieffer got out of his vehicle holding a handgun and cellphone and walked toward the officers.
T he BCI report stated the officers yelled to Schieffer to drop the gun. At one point, Schieffer had
the gun pointed toward his head. As he got closer to the officers he pointed the gun at the officers
and fired his weapon. T he officers returned fire, killing Schieffer.

In Fremgen's memo, he said during the pursuit Schieffer was talking with a friend on a cellphone. In
an interview with Schieffer's friend on Feb. 22, the friend said Schieffer sounded frantic and told the
friend he was not going back to prison.

"...(Schieffer) had a firearm and had shot at police in an attempt to get the police to shoot him,"
Fremgen wrote in the memo.

T he pursuing law enforcement vehicles had stopped about a half mile back from Schieffer. T he
officers used a public address system and yelled, telling Schieffer to drop the gun. Fremgen said in
the memo that Schieffer also yelled at the officers to shut up as he was talking on the phone.

"It is clear Schieffer heard and considered the pleading of the officers," Fremgen said in the memo.

Hord, Yunck and White waited for backup to arrive after shooting Schieffer and administered first
aid to Schieffer. He died at the scene.

colson@jamestownsun.com

(701) 952-8454

Copyrig ht, 2018, Jamestown Sun, The (ND), All Rights Reserved.

 

Authorities identify man killed after chase in - Associated Press State
Wire: North Dakota (ND) - February 24, 2018
February 24, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: North Dakota (ND)

WOODWORT H, N.D. (AP) — Authorities have identified a man shot and killed by police after he
allegedly fired at officers during a chase in south-central North Dakota.

M ichael Andrew
Stutsman County Sheriff Chad Kaiser identified the man as 27-year-old Michael Andrew
Schief f er.
Schief f er

Schieffer had a warrant out for his arrest in Bismarck for driving under suspension. Jamestown
police started pursuing him on Highway 281 north of Jamestown just before noon Wednesday.
Stutsman County sheriff's deputies joined the chase.

KQDJ reports Schieffer shot at officers during the chase. Authorities say after his vehicle became
stuck near Woodworth, he tried to run away and fired shots again.

Kaiser says officers fired back, fatally wounding him. T he sheriff says no officers were hurt.

___

Information from: KQDJ-AM, http://www.newsdakota.com/kqdj-1400am

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Sheriff's office releases name of pursuit suspect - Jamestown Sun, The
(ND) - February 22, 2018
February 22, 2018 | Jamestown Sun, The (ND) | Chris Olson | News

Feb. 22--A 27-year-old Jamestown man was identified Thursday as the man killed by law
enforcement following a pursuit in the city that ended north of Medina in the Woodworth area.

Stutsman County Sheriff Chad Kaiser said Michael Andrew Schief f er
that began late Wednesday morning.

M ichael Andrew Schief f er died following the incident

Kaiser said Schieffer moved around a lot and he didn't have his last known address. Kaiser said
there was a warrant for Schieffer from the city of Bismarck for driving under suspension. He said
this was the reason a Jamestown police officer attempted to pull him over around 11:38 a.m. in the
1900 block of 12th Avenue Northeast. Schieffer led Jamestown police officers on a pursuit from
Jamestown into northwest Stutsman County.

During the pursuit, Kaiser said Schieffer shot at Stutsman County Sheriff's deputies, who continued
the chase after the Jamestown Police Department called off its pursuit. T he pursuit came to an end
near the Woodworth area when the vehicle that Schieffer was driving got stuck.

Scott Edinger, Jamestown chief of police, said Thursday the pursuing law enforcement officers
stopped about a quarter to a half mile behind Schieffer. He said Schieffer got out of the vehicle
holding a cellphone and handgun and walked back to deputies and Jamestown police.

"When he got close to the officers, he raised the gun and fired at the officers," Edinger said. "T he
officers returned fire almost simultaneously and he was killed."

Kaiser said the deputies and officers performed first aid and CPR on Schieffer while the Medina
Ambulance Service responded.

T he incident is being investigated by the Stutsman County Sheriff's Office and the North Dakota
Bureau of Criminal Investigation with support from the Jamestown Police Department.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Jamestown Sun, The (ND), All Rights Reserved.

 
Investigation clears officers in fatal Stutsman Co - Associated Press
State Wire: North Dakota (ND) - March 19, 2018
March 19, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: North Dakota (ND)

JAMEST OWN, N.D. (AP) — An investigation has cleared three law officers involved in a fatal
shooting after a chase in south-central North Dakota last month.

Stutsman County State's Attorney Fritz Fremgen says no charges will be filed against Jamestown
Police Officer Logan Hord and Stutsman County sheriff's Deputies Daniel White and Casey Yunck.

T he North Dakota Bureau of Criminal Investigation conducted the investigation, which found that
the officers were justified in using deadly force.

M ichael Schief f er (SHY'-fur) led officers on a chase that ended north of

T wenty-seven-year-old Michael Schief f er
Medina on Feb. 21. Schieffer shot at officers during the chase. Authorities say after his vehicle
became stuck, he tried to run away and fired shots again. Officers fired back, fatally wounding him.
No officers were hurt.

KQDJ reports the officers have returned to duty.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

Prosecutor clears 2 officers who killed man during - Associated Press
State Wire: Iowa (IA) - March 8, 2019
March 8, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Iowa (IA)

FORT  DODGE, Iowa (AP) — T he Webster County attorney has cleared two officers who killed a
man during an exchange of gunfire.

M atthew H urley, of Wall Lake, died Dec. 31 after engaging in a gunfight while
Forty-five-year-old Matthew H urley
driving away from officers who had been called to a disturbance just outside Fort Dodge. Hurley's
vehicle eventually stopped in a field, and he was found dead inside.

T he review released Thursday says each officer was "justified in the use of reasonable force,
including deadly force, in that each reasonably believed that such force was necessary to defend
himself or another from an actual or imminent use of unlawful force by Matthew Thomas Hurley."

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
Man found dead after shootout was from Wall Lake - Associated Press
State Wire: Iowa (IA) - January 2, 2019
January 2, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Iowa (IA)

FORT  DODGE, Iowa (AP) — Authorities have identified a man killed after exchanging gunfire with
officers in Webster County as a resident of Wall Lake.

M atthew H urley.
T he Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation identified the man as 45-year-old Matthew H urley

Hurley died Monday night after engaging in a gunfight while driving away from officers who had
been called to a disturbance just outside Fort Dodge. Hurley's vehicle eventually stopped in a field,
and he was found dead inside.

T he officers who fired at Hurley were identified as Sgt. Aaron Schmidt, of the Iowa State Patrol,
and deputy Chase Goodman, of the Calhoun County sheriff's office.

Investigators are still awaiting autopsy, toxicology and laboratory tests.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
Officials ID Wall Lake man killed in Webster - Sioux City Journal (IA) -
January 2, 2019
January 2, 2019 | Sioux City Journal (IA) | Nick Hytrek

FORT  DODGE, Iowa -- Authorities have identified a Siouxland man killed Monday in an officer-
involved shooting in Webster County.

M atthew H urley, 45, of Wall Lake, Iowa, was found dead in his vehicle after exchanging gunfire
M atthew H urley
with authorities responding to a call of a domestic disturbance just outside Fort Dodge.

T he Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation identified the officers involved in the shooting as Iowa
State Patrol Sgt. Aaron Schmidt and Calhoun County Sheriff's Deputy Chase Goodman.

A deputy responded to the domestic call shortly after 10 p.m. Monday and observed a vehicle
matching the description of one given to dispatchers. T he vehicle did not stop and led authorities
on a pursuit that started outside Fort Dodge and ended near the intersection of Iowa Highway 175
and Oak Avenue in rural Webster County.

T he Webster County Sheriff's Office said in a news release that gun shots were fired from the
vehicle during the pursuit, and officers returned fire. T he vehicle drove out into a field and came to
a stop. After securing the area, officers approached the vehicle and found Hurley dead inside.

T he incident remains under investigation pending an autopsy and toxicology and laboratory
testing, the DCI said in a news release.

Copyrig ht (c) 2019 Sioux City Journal

 

 
State officials have identified the Iowa man killed during a car chase with law enforcement as well as the people

who shot him. 

Matthew Hurley, 45, was shot Monday by Iowa State Patrol Sgt. Aaron Schmidt and Calhoun County Deputy Chase

Goodman after leading several agencies on a chase that started near Fort Dodge, according to a news release from

the Iowa Division of Criminal Investigation. Iowa State Patrol spokesman Sgt. Nathan Ludwig said Schmidt has

been placed on administrative leave, which is protocol when a patrolman's weapon is fired. Calhoun County

Sheriff's Office has not responded to questions about Goodman's status. 

Police were called to a domestic dispute around 10 p.m. New Year's Eve. They saw a vehicle matching the

description in the call, attempted to stop it and were then led on a chase into rural Webster County. Hurley's car

was found near the intersection of Highway 175 and Oak Avenue. Webster County Sheriff's Office reported shortly

after the incident that the Wall Lake man had fired shots from his vehicle toward law enforcement officials during

the pursuit. Officials returned fire and Hurley's car eventually came to a stop into a field. 

When deputies surrounded the vehicle, Hurley was discovered dead inside. Webster, Calhoun, Hamilton and Boone

counties' sheriff's departments were involved in the chase as well as Dayton, Gowrie and Fort Dodge police and the

The incident is under investigation pending autopsy, toxicology and laboratory testing, the DCI states. 

Tyler Davis can be contacted at tjdavis@dmreg.com or on Twitter @TDavisDMR. 

Sheriffs; Criminal investigations; Law enforcement

Company / organization:

Name: Twitter Inc; NAICS: 519130; Name: State Patrol-Iowa; NAICS: 922120

Publication title:

Des Moines Register; Des Moines, Iowa

Iowa State Patrol. 

CREDIT: Tyler J Davis 
 
 


DA: Fatal shooting of Oklahoma escapee justified - Associated Press
State Wire: Oklahoma (OK) - April 4, 2018
April 4, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Oklahoma (OK)

SHAWNEE, Okla. (AP) — A district attorney has ruled that a U.S. Marshal and an Oklahoma drug
agent involved in the fatal shooting of a prison escapee were both justified in using deadly force.

T he Shawnee News-Star reports that Pottawatomie County District Attorney Richard
Smothermon ruled Tuesday the shooting death of 40-year-old Ricky Leon Rusche

Ricky Leon Rusche was justified.

Smothermon declined charges against Deputy Marshal Anthony Degiusti of the U.S. Marshal's
Service and Agent Robert Lewis of the Oklahoma Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs
Control.

Evidence shows Rusche escaped from the Oklahoma Department of Corrections Dec. 26. Police
issued a felony arrest warrant the following day.

T he U.S. Marshal's Service T ask Force found Rusche in a trailer house late January. Degiusti and
Lewis fatally shot him, saying he refused to comply and threatened law enforcement.

___

Information from: T he Shawnee News-Star, http://www.news-star.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 


 
PINK, Okla. (AP) - An Oklahoma prison inmate who walked away from a halfway house in December was fatally

shot by law officers. 

Rusche. 

Pottawatomie County Sheriff Mike Booth said 40-year-old Ricky Rusche was shot Tuesday by officers at a home in

Pink, about 25 miles (40 kilometers) southeast of Oklahoma City. He says it isn't known yet why the officers shot

State Department of Corrections spokesman Matt Elliott says Rusche walked away from the Carver Transitional

Center in Oklahoma City in December. Online court records show he was charged Jan. 5 with escape. 

The Carver center is to help inmates nearing the end of their sentences to reintegrate into the community. 

Court records show Rusche was convicted in 2016 of embezzlement, unauthorized use of a vehicle and making a

Publication title:

AP English Language News (includes AP 50 State Report); New York

false declaration of ownership to a pawn shop. 

Credit: Associated Press 
 
 

Oklahoma man killed Tuesday during confrontation - Tulsa World (OK)
- January 30, 2018
January 30, 2018 | Tulsa World (OK) | From The Oklahoman Staff Reports

PINK — A man is dead after a confrontation with the U.S. Marshals Service near Pink T uesday
morning, Pottawatomie County Sheriff Mike Booth said.

Ricky Leon Rusche, 40, was wanted on a warrant issued on Jan. 8 in Oklahoma County District
Ricky Leon Rusche
Court for escaping a penitentiary. Rusche was reported to be in Pottawatomie County and sheriff's
deputies assisting the U.S. Marshals Service went out to find him Tuesday morning, Booth said.

Booth said authorities located Rusche at a home and a confrontation with law enforcement
officers ensued. He said shots were fired, but didn't know "who fired what shots" and that officers
later found Rusche dead.

T wo other people at the home had active warrants and were arrested, Booth said. He said no
other details on the shooting were available as authorities continue their investigation.

Click here to link to the article at NewsOK. Some stories require an Oklahoman subscription to
read.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Tulsa World. World Publishing  Co.

 
Deadly shooting ruled justified - OFFICER-INVOLVED - Shawnee News-
Star, The (OK) - April 4, 2018 - page A1
April 4, 2018 | Shawnee News-Star, The (OK) | Kim Morava | Page A1

Pottawatomie County District Attorney Richard Smother Mon ruled Tuesday that a U.S. Marshal
and a state drug agent involved in the deadly shooting of a prison escapee near Pink in late-January
were both justified in using deadly force. Charges have been declined.

T he suspect who died at the scene of that incident was identified as 40-yearold Ricky Leon
Ricky Leon
Rusche, who was a Department of Corrections escapee.
Rusche

T he search for that escapee led U.S. Marshals, state agents and local authorities to a home in Pink,
where the deadly shooting occurred. Oklahoma Highway Patrol's Troop Z conducted the
investigation into the incident.

In his clearance letter, Smother mon noted that his office received the report from OHP's
investigative division in the Rusche shooting by Deputy Marshal Anthony Degiusti of the U.S.
Marshal's Service and Agent Robert Lewis of the Oklahoma Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous
Drugs Control.

Evidence establishes that on Dec. 26, 2017, Rusche escaped from the Department of Corrections
and a felony arrest warrant was issued the following day. On T uesday, Jan. 30, multiple members of
the U.S. Marshal's Service T ask Force were briefed on information gathered about Rusche,
including possible locations, violent associates and information about weapons stolen from a
home where Rusche had been staying, with all officers believing that Rusche was possibly armed
with a weapon.

Smothermon notes that members of the T ask Force went to a trailer home located at 31019
T arver Drive, T ecumseh, in an attempt to arrest Rusche. "During the search of the trailer house,
Rusche was located hiding in the attic crawl space above the master bedroom in the trailer house."

Smothermon writes, with the home in various stages of remodel and several portions of the ceiling
missing, providing visual access to the crawl space.

Once Rusche was located, task force officers gave multiple verbal commands to come out of his
hiding place in the attic, but "Rusche refused to comply with any of the commands," the letter
reads.

T ask force officers by this time had their weapons drawn and continued verbal commands to show
his hands and come down, the letter continues, with Rusche attempting to get away by going
further into the crawl space.

Because of the openings, another officer, David Moore, was able to grab part of Rusche's clothing

in an attempt to pull him from the crawl space. "Rusche began yelling, 'I got a gun, I got a gun,' in a
threatening tone and attempted to break free from Moore's grip," the letter state.

Multiple officers at the scene heard Rusche say either "you're going to kill me," or "you're going to
have to kill me."

Marshal Degiusti was able to clearly see the left side of Rusche's body and saw the hand grip of a
black pistol in his left pocket that was accessible at any time, Smothermon notes, adding that when
Moore lost his grip on Rusche and he withdrew back into the rafter area of the crawl space,
Degiusti and Agent Lewis both fired their weapons, striking Rusche multiple time s.

"It is important to note that the events as detailed by member of the task force were corroborated
by civilian witnesses at the scene," the letter reads, as those witnesses confirm multiple verbal
commands were given in an attempt to get Rusche to comply and surrender.

"It is the opinion of this office that the use of deadly force on Jan. 30, 2018 by Deputy Marshal
Anthony Degiusti and OBN Agent Robert Lewis was justifiable under the constitutions and law of
the United States and the State of Oklahoma."

Smothermon concluded.

Copyrig ht 2018 The Shawnee News-Star, All Rights Reserved.

 

KCPD on fatal shootings: Man in fight pointed gun - Kansas City Star,
The (MO) - June 20, 2018
June 20, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Ian Cummings, Glenn E. Rice and Joe Robertson, The Kansas City
Star

Kansas City police on Wednesday released new details about two separate police shootings last
week that left three people dead in the same afternoon.

T he details, provided in a written statement from the Kansas City Police Department, come after
police have conducted an initial investigation of the shootings and while detectives continue to
collect witness statements and evidence. T he two shootings occurred within an hour of each other
on T hursday, June 14.

T he new information paints a clearer picture of what led up to the shooting in Barney Allis Plaza
downtown, where two men who were reportedly fighting were both shot and killed by police
officers.

T he statement also described how police, an hour earlier, came to fatally shoot a woman with a
sword in a Northland neighborhood.

According to police, the incident in Barney Allis Plaza, at 12th and Wyandotte streets, began shortly
before 5 p.m. when Timothy Mosley of T ulsa, Okla., was thrown out of the nearby Marriott Hotel
for causing a disturbance.

Mosley then allegedly walked into the plaza and used a handgun to rob a uniformed security guard
of some personal property and a golf cart. T he security guard escaped.

A short time later, someone called police to report that Mosley was fighting with another man,
later identified as Robert A. White

Robert A. White, 34.

Robert A. White 
T imothy Mosley and Robert White.jpgT imothy D. Mosley, left, and Robert A. White

White, who was homeless and struggled with mental illness, often spent time at the park, a relative
said. Family members of both men said they didn't know whether the two knew each other.

In the plaza, the two men fought and separated several times over several minutes, during which
time Mosley had the gun, according to police.

When told of Wednesday's police statement, White' sister, Andrea Kleindienst, said the new details
confirmed to her that her brother was innocent.

"For us, this kind of exonerates my brother," Kleindienst said. "We felt he was gunned down and he
should not have been. It is tragic for both families. It is kind of along the lines of what we felt

happened. T hey murdered my brother."

T he police statement Wednesday says that between the fights, Mosley "walked around Barney
Allis Plaza holding the gun in the air and yelling."

But despite the violent confrontations, White did not leave the park, remaining at a nearby picnic
table. Police said they are trying to learn why the men were fighting, why White remained at the
park and whether the two had ever met before.

Police officers responding to the scene had been told that two men were fighting over a gun and
possibly a golf cart. Shortly after officers arrived, Mosley "re-engaged White," according to police.

As the two were struggling and physically intertwined, police say, Mosley pointed the gun at
officers.

Officers fired their guns, hitting both men.

T he officers rendered first aid, but both men died.

Investigators recovered a semi-automatic handgun from the scene and one spent shell casing
from a gun not belonging to police, matching the caliber of the recovered gun.

For Mosley's mother, Nella Mosley of T ulsa, the police statement was confusing and disturbing.

"T hey say he robbed a security guard? Why would he steal a golf cart?" she said. "I don't believe
T imothy pointed a gun at anyone. Until I see a video of him putting a gun on police, I won't believe
it."

Kansas City police officers generally don't wear body cameras.

T he only video of the shooting that has been seen publicly is footage from the phone of a witness
through the window of a nearby building. It shows Mosley fighting with White and the police
arriving. But Mosley and White are obscured by trees when police shoot.

Mosley's family is preparing for his funeral and grieving over the death of the 33-year-old barber
and stand-up comedian who had left Tulsa in mid-May to come to Kansas City.

"His spirit is gone, but the truth will prevail," Nella Mosley said. "T he truth's going to come out. I'm
praying about it."

Mosley had had some encounters with law enforcement in the past. He was arrested by T ulsa
police in June 2015 when officers found him at a casino, apparently under the influence of alcohol,
with a handgun in his pocket.

White also had a history with gun-related offenses, including a 2015 case of unlawful transport,
manufacture, repair or sale of an illegal weapon.

After releasing the statement Wednesday, Kansas City police declined to answer further questions
about the shootings, citing the ongoing investigations.

T he investigation is being handled internally by Kansas City police, as is standard practice for the
department.

Anyone who saw the shooting is asked to call the Police Department's homicide unit at 816-234-
5148.

Wednesday's police statement also addressed the fatal shooting of a woman in the Northland
about an hour before the Barney Allis Plaza incident.

T he statement says that police shot the woman, 28-year-old Ashley Simonetti, after she ran at
officers with a 27-inch steel sword.

ashley fb pic.JPGAshley Simonetti

Police identified Simonetti as Ashley Dean Fulkerson, which is her mother's last name.

According to police, the incident began about 1:30 p.m. when officers working in the area of
Northeast 38th Street and North Jackson Avenue saw a woman, later identified as Simonetti,
walking down the street with a sword.

She appeared to be headed toward a day care center. T he officers tried to talk to her, but she ran.

Simonetti then tried unsuccessfully to enter several homes before breaking into a house where no
one was home. T he alarm system went off, and she locked the door behind her.

Because police considered Simonetti armed and because she would not leave the house, they
initiated a procedure for an armed standoff. T hat procedure includes bringing more officers to the
scene, including a tactical team and negotiators.

Police surrounded the house, and the nearby day care was placed on lockdown.

After about an hour and 20 minutes, Simonetti left the house and fled into a nearby detached
garage, still carrying the sword. T he homeowner said last Friday that Simonetti had entered his
house through an unlocked door and took a decorative sword and put on a bridesmaid dress.

While she was fleeing, officers used several nonlethal tools to try to arrest her. Police did not
immediately specify those tools on Wednesday but said "although she was struck numerous times,
they were ineffective, which is very unusual."

Officers surrounded the garage to keep Simonetti from escaping. Trying to get her to surrender,
they used negotiators, pepper spray and beanbag projectiles, without success.

Negotiators tried to talk to Simonetti by phone and through a public address system but received
no response.

About 4 p.m. — "after being repeatedly instructed to disarm," police said — Simonetti left the
garage and "ran toward officers with the sword."

Officers shot and killed Simonetti.

Witness to Northland police shooting describes chaotic scene as woman with sword refuses to
surrenderGrant Braaten, who lives across the street from where Northland police shot and killed a
woman wielding a sword T hursday, describes the hours-long ordeal that led to her death.

An ambulance was waiting nearby, and paramedics responded to help Simonetti. She died at the
scene.

Police recovered the sword. No one else was injured.

In the statement Wednesday, police said the incidents were unfortunate and the deaths were
tragedies.

"T hese were outcomes no one wanted," read the statement, released by police spokesman Capt.
Lionel Colón. "Our community deserves to know what happens whenever police use lethal force,
but investigators also need time to gather evidence and statements to conduct a thorough
investigation."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 
'Will he get justice?' Dad of man killed downtown - Kansas City Star,
The (MO) - June 21, 2018
June 21, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Max Londberg, The Kansas City Star

Days after his only son was killed by police, Mark Draper tried to hold it together for his great-
grandson.

But his daughter caught him clenching his eyes shut, taking deep breaths. She knew his mind was
elsewhere.

"I'm not supposed to bury him. He's supposed to bury me," Mark Draper said Thursday by phone
from his home in Lowry City, about 20 miles south of Clinton. "(Kansas City police) cost me more
than I ever thought I'd lose.

"…It hurts my soul."

On Wednesday Kansas City police released additional details in last week's shooting at the Barney
Allis Plaza. Police said Draper's son was "struggling and physically intertwined" with another man
who pointed a gun at officers, prompting them to fire. Video shows three officers running toward
the two men with guns drawn and firing within 10 seconds.

Robert A. White
Robert A. White, Draper's 34-year-old son, was killed, as was the man police say had the gun,
T imothy Mosley of T ulsa, Okla. White battled symptoms of mental illness for years, including
paranoia.

Robert A. White 
T imothy Mosley and Robert White.jpgT imothy D. Mosley, left, and Robert A. White

Draper, 60, called on Kansas City police to implement body cameras to clear up lingering questions
in situations like this one.

"I believe in law enforcement," Draper said. "I'm not picking on police, but from what I've seen, they
came in with guns blazing. … If officers had cameras on them, they could show the view on each
one of them."

Before fighting with White, Mosley was thrown out of the nearby Marriott Hotel for causing a
disturbance, police said. He then allegedly walked into the plaza and used a handgun to rob a
uniformed security guard of some personal property and a golf cart. T he security guard escaped.

White's sister, Andrea Kleindienst, echoed her father's call for implementing body cameras.

As Kansas City police — which internally investigates shootings its officers are involved in over
critics complaints — reviews evidence in the shooting, Kleindienst asked, "Why can't we? Why can't
we expect the same from them by being required to wear body-worn cameras?"

Cameras would eliminate any suspicions of police's conclusions, she added.

Police shooting near Barney Allis Plaza; 2 deadPolice were on the scene late Thursday afternoon in
response to an officer-involved shooting near 12th and Wyandotte. Two were killed.

Last June, officials said it could take until 2020 to implement the technology, with initial costs
estimated at $6 million for the Department.

When asked for updates Thursday on their progress, Jacob Becchina, a police spokesman, said,
"We are always exploring technology that is out there that will make us more effective and better
able to serve the public."

He added that the three officers' names would not be released and said he didn't have "specific
information" regarding whether they were on paid administrative leave, a typical outcome
following officer-involved shootings.

Matthew Sinno, a Massachusetts man who witnessed the shooting from the ninth-floor of the
nearby Marriott Hotel, said officers yelled commands, imploring Mosley to drop the weapon and
raise his hands before they fired.

Mosley and White were obscured by trees from his vantage when they were killed.

"T he only people who really know what happened that day are the three police officers," he said,
adding, "I imagine they should all wear body cameras for both sides — to protect police … and
protect victims for when lethal force isn't necessary."

Police said they recovered a spent shell casing that matched the caliber of Mosley's gun. Sinno said
he didn't hear any gunshots until police arrived.

Police have not responded to a question asked last week about whether officers took fire.

Jackson County Prosecutor Jean Peters Baker, following precedent, called Kleindienst on T hursday
and offered condolences.

"In the kindest, most professional way, she said she's not going to sugarcoat anything, on either
end" in her investigation of the shooting, Kleindienst said.

White's family planned to cremate his body T hursday.

Draper concluded after viewing the video that police killed his son "like a mad dog."

"My son didn’t have a gun, didn't have a weapon, wasn’t threatening the police officers, but my
son’s dead," he said. "Will he get justice?"

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 
Prosecutor’s decision in June KCPD shooting says - Kansas City Star,
The (MO) - February 5, 2019
February 5, 2019 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Glenn E. Rice, The Kansas City Star

A pair of Kansas City police officers who shot and killed two men struggling over a handgun last
summer at Barney Allis Plaza in downtown Kansas City will not face criminal charges, Jackson
County Prosecutor Jean Peters Baker has concluded.

T he officers shot Timothy D. Mosley, 33, and Robert A. White
just before 5 p.m. on June 14. T he officers found the men fighting over a gun and a golf cart at
West 12th and Wyandotte streets, according to police.

Robert A. White, 34, after being called to the area

White was a victim in the incident, Peters Baker found, and was killed because he was close to
Mosely, who threatened police with a gun.

A key finding in Peters Baker’s review of the shooting showed that Mosley kept his arm around
White as they wrestled and while he pointed his handgun at the officers. Mosley ignored the
officers’ repeated demands for him to drop his weapon, Peters Baker said.

“T he officers had only a few seconds to make a determination of what was transpiring as it
dramatically unfolded before them and to act,” she said. “T hey were compelled to fire when
(Mosley) ignored commands, pointed his weapon at an officer, attempted to fire it, and caused the
officers to legally use deadly force in their defense and in the defense of others, killing both
civilians.”

Peters Baker described her decision to not file charges in a letter dated Jan. 9 to Kansas City Police
Chief Rick Smith, detailing the events of that Thursday afternoon and the actions of the officers.
T he letter was posted to the Prosecutor’s Office website Tuesday evening.

White is described by Peters Baker as “an innocent bystander who was pulled into these events by
Mosley’s aggressive and unilateral actions.”

T he investigation concluded that White was a victim of Mosley and that the three police officers
who arrived on the scene are not legally responsible for White’s death, she said.

Both men had previous troubles with the law.

Mosley was arrested by Tulsa police in June 2015 when officers found him at a casino, apparently
under the influence of alcohol with a handgun in his pocket.

White was charged in 2015 with of unlawful transport, manufacture, repair or sale of an illegal
weapon.

In making the decision against filing criminal charges, Peters Baker said she relied on surveillance
videos, video captured on the cellphone of a hotel guest and interviews with numerous witnesses
and officers on the scene.

An officer was not legally required to allow Mosley to fire his weapon at him or others before
“employing his own force,” Peters Baker said.

Before the shooting, a manager at the Marriott Hotel at the plaza spoke to a “suspicious
individual” in the lobby who said he had just been released from jail and was looking for a room.

T he man, later identified as Mosley, began to act strangely and told the hotel manager, “there are
a lot of people here with guns bothering me.” T he manager asked Mosley to leave.

Mosley walked across the street and got into a golf cart that belonged to a Barney Allis Plaza
security guard. Mosley told the guard, “people got guns and are talking about me doing something
wrong.”

He pointed a gun into the guard’s side and said, “You gonna do what I ask you to do,’‘ as he forced
the security guard to drive up to White.

Mosley got out of the golf cart and attacked White. T he security guard ran away and called for
help.

Officers responded to the area after receiving several calls of a “disturbance with a weapon.”

A hotel guest used his cell phone to film the fight between Mosley and White. An employee of a
nearby hotel saw the three officers approaching the two men with their guns drawn.

T he worker said he heard the officers yell at Mosley, “Put it down. Let me see your hands,”
according to the letter.

One of the officers saw Mosley point his handgun at the another officer. T he first officer heard a
gunshot and immediately dropped to his knees and returned gunfire.

T he second officer described the gun: “It was pointed right at me, I was looking down the barrel of
a gun.” T hat officer also opened fire, aiming between Mosley and White, Peters Baker said.

A third responding officer said he did not fire his weapon.

“T he evidence demonstrates that (Mosley) was armed with a deadly weapon, repeatedly failing to
comply with the commands of multiple officers at the time of the shooting, and his conduct
leading up to the shooting demonstrates an intent to engage in violent behavior that imminently
threatened the lives of the officers,” Peters Baker said.

Surveillance video shows Mosley attempting to pull the trigger of the gun pointed at the officer
and his wrist appears to dip as if attempting trigger pulls of the weapon, she said.

“In fact, each of the three officers involved in this encounter believed that (Mosley) was attempted
to kill them or others in that moment, requiring them to take immediate actions to protect their
lives and the lives of others,” Peters Baker said.

Copyrig ht (c) 2019 The Kansas City Star

 
'You could see bullets flying': Video, witness - Kansas City Star, The
(MO) - June 15, 2018
June 15, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Max Londberg, The Kansas City Star

Late Thursday afternoon, as Matthew Sinno watched from his ninth-floor window of a downtown
hotel, he saw what he thought would be a routine arrest turn deadly.

Within moments of three Kansas City police officers arriving at Barney Allis Plaza, bullets from their
guns kicked up dirt in the public square below.

"You could see bullets flying in the area," said the Massachusetts native visiting Kansas City for
work.

By Friday, Kansas City police had released few details about the officer-involved shooting that killed
two men at 12th and Wyandotte streets.

But Sinno's harrowing account and a video of the incident provide insight into the incident, which
led to a lock down and warning of an active shooter at the nearby Kansas City Convention Center.

Police on Friday identified the men killed as Robert A. White
said they recovered a gun "from one of the deceased men."

Robert A. White, 34, and Timothy D. Mosley, 33, and

But questions remain about why the apparently unarmed man was shot.

Sinno was in his hotel room in the east building of the Marriott hotel when he saw the two men
fighting.

In an interview with T he Star on Friday, he said he saw one man "pistol-whipping the other" and
then putting the weapon in his waistband. T he men then separated only to tussle again, with one
man dragging the other from a golf cart and kicking him.

KC police kill 3 in 1 day, say they met 'criteria for lethal force.' Questions remain

Police have said the men were fighting over the golf cart.

About seven or eight minutes elapsed before officers arrived on scene, Sinno said.

In a video shot from the Marriott, three officers are seen running with their weapons drawn toward
the two men, who are obscured by trees, and then firing several shots. T he officers fire within 10
seconds of arriving and after what appears to be a brief exchange with the men.

Sinno said he heard the officers yelling, "Hands up! Drop your weapon!"

T he officers appear to be within 15 feet of the men when they fire, the video shows.

Other than the officers and suspects, the plaza was empty, Sinno said.

Kansas City police spokesman Capt. Lionel Colón did not respond to a question Friday about what
the unarmed man was doing that elicited lethal force when officers arrived. He also did not specify
which man had the gun.

Friday morning, the public square was largely empty with the exception of a bio-hazard team
working the site of the shooting, in the northwest part of the park.

T he team was wiping down a table and chairs and shoveling away the upper portion of the dirt and
gravel ground surface.

An assistant with the Jackson County Prosecutor's Office was on the scene Friday and will conduct
an investigation into the shooting.

T he incident was the second officer-involved shooting on Thursday in Kansas City. Police also killed
a woman wielding a sword in the Northland.

T he police investigation of the downtown shooting and the one in the Northland will be handled
internally by Kansas City police, Police Chief Rick Smith said T hursday.

Kansas City police on Friday also identified the woman killed in the Northland as Ashley D.
Fulkerson.

T he Star's Matt Campbell contributed to this story.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 
'A huge mistake': Families of 2 men shot and - Kansas City Star, The (MO)
- June 19, 2018
June 19, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Joe Robertson, Glenn E. Rice, Max Londberg and Ian Cummings,
The Kansas City Star

One question. T hat's all Nella Mosley had for the Jackson County coroner.

Her 33-year-old son was one of two men shot and killed by Kansas City police officers in a
downtown square, and the man she reached on the phone had been there when Tim Mosley's
body came into the morgue T hursday.

"Were his eyes open or closed?" she asked.

Closed, he answered.

Many more questions trouble family members and friends of both Mosley and 34-year-old Robert
Robert
A. White after police responding to their apparent fight over a gun and a golf cart quickly shot
A. White
both of them in the Barney Allis Plaza at 12th and Wyandotte streets.

Robert A. White 
T imothy Mosley and Robert White.jpgT imothy D. Mosley, left, and Robert A. White

It is unclear who was originally in possession of the gun, how the golf cart was involved or what
started the altercation. Police are releasing few details as the investigation continues.

But Nella Mosley was sure, with his eyes closed, that her son at least knew death was coming.

She imagines that her son — described by friends in his hometown of T ulsa, Okla., Monday as a
talented barber and a provocative comedian — remembered her long-ago advice.

"If you don't want to feel it," she said, thinking of doctor's shots and needle pricks, "close your
eyes."

"T hat's what he did. He took those bullets."

His life came to an end along with White's, who was struggling with mental illness and was often
homeless, his sister said.

A witness' cellphone video showed that Mosley was dominating in the fight. White's sister, Andrea
Kleindienst of Clinton, said her brother needed the police's help.

Instead, "they killed my brother."

Neither she nor people who knew Mosley have any clue what brought the two men together in the

park.

Police shooting near Barney Allis Plaza; 2 deadPolice were on the scene late Thursday afternoon in
response to an officer-involved shooting near 12th and Wyandotte. Two were killed.

Kleindienst said White had regularly spent time around that park, often haunted by psychotic
hallucinations. He had talked about a job he had secured in St. Joseph and that he was going to be
moving there.

"T he last conversation I had with him, he said he wanted to get out and make some amends with
everybody," she said.

Mosley may have been hoping to take a crack at working in Kansas City comedy clubs. He didn't
say so, though, when he left Tulsa in mid-May.

His father, Thomas Russell of T ulsa, said his son called him the night of June 13, the day before he
died.

"He wanted to see how I was doing," Russell said. Mosley told his father he was living in a motel
and that a temp agency had been getting him "some cool jobs."

"He told me he was looking to find another place (to live) that took pets, because he wanted to get
a dog."

Father's Day passed with his son gone. T he unanswered questions torment him.

"I need to know," he said of the police's actions. "I need to know. My son didn't deserve this. T he
other man, too. T hey killed both of them."

Mosley is black and White is white, but the initial dispatch sending officers to the scene described
them both as black.

"Assist on a disturbance . . . involving a black male wearing black clothes. He's armed with a
handgun and stole a golf cart," the dispatcher said shortly before 5 p.m., according to a recording
of the call published on Broadcastify.com. "T he black male is currently fighting with another black
male . . . (inaudible) said they're fighting over the gun right now."

Police said one of the men was found with a gun but haven't specified who. T hey also haven't said
why an unarmed man out of reach of the officers was considered a lethal threat.

Video shows three officers approaching the two men with their guns drawn. Mosley and White are
obscured by trees when the officers open fire.

T he investigation is being handled internally by Kansas City police, Police Chief Rick Smith said
T hursday.

Police spokesman Capt. Lionel Colón said Saturday that the police "take both the concerns of

those touched by tragedy and the integrity of the investigation seriously."

T he news of Mosley's death was stunning, said Patti Ferguson, a retired teacher who taught
humanities at Nathan Hale High School, where Mosley is remembered even after 15 years.

His wit, his deep thinking — "you could see the wheels turning" — she said, made him one of those
students "who never left my heart."

He was a wrestler, football player and a yell leader at the school.

His charm first made him a hit at Barber King in T ulsa, where he started as a sweeper when he was
12, and became a barber when he was 17, said owner Mike Kelly-Counsellor.

Mosley went with Kelly-Counsellor when he took the business to his hometown in the Baltimore
area, then returned to Tulsa with the business several years ago.

"He was the funniest, most provocative-thinking, intelligent guy in the barber shop," Kelly-
Counsellor said. "He had an answer for everything."

He began working Tulsa comedy clubs and got opportunities to open for some major acts.

"He was funny as hell," friend Danny Patton said. "He was the class clown. He made everyone
laugh."

Mosley had had some encounters with law enforcement in the past. He was arrested by T ulsa
police in June 2015 when officers found him at a casino apparently under the influence of alcohol
with a handgun in his pocket.

White also had a history with gun-related offenses, including a 2015 case of unlawful transport,
manufacture, repair or sale of an illegal weapon.

White grew up in California and Warrensburg, Kleindienst said. T he symptoms he battled included
hallucinations, paranoia and manic episodes. He needed help, she said, and had hopes of improving
his standing in life.

For the police to shoot him, she said, was "a huge mistake."

Nella Mosley will likely never know why her son was fighting with White, but she believes that, in a
different situation, he would have wanted to help White.

In T ulsa, she said, she saw her son regularly give aid to a man he passed outside their
neighborhood QuikT rip, getting him coffee or something to eat.

He was a member of the Fairfield, Conn.-based Save the Children organization, providing a regular
donation to aid children. Nella Mosley said she will continue paying for him.

At night she struggles for sleep, she said. She closes her eyes, waiting to learn from the police

investigation.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 

The Latest: Police didn't fire quickly at shooting - Associated Press
State Wire: Maryland (MD) - January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maryland (MD)

LIT T LE ORLEANS, Md. (AP) — T he Latest on a standoff that ended with a suspect dead and two
officers wounded (all times local):

Maryland state police say they did not fire immediately at a man who shot and wounded two state
troopers during a lengthy standoff over a domestic violence call.

William Charles Mackenzie fired multiple shots from a bedroom window at about

Police said William Charles M ackenzie
7:30 a.m. Friday, hitting two troopers who were near the perimeter. Police said they did not return
fire at that point.

Police said that about an hour later, Mackenzie came out of his burning house, pointed a gun
toward police and ignored commands to drop the weapon. T hat's when police say they fired at
Mackenzie. He was wounded and later pronounced dead at a hospital.

T he two troopers were treated for gunshot wounds to their legs and released.

6:07 p.m.

___

3:20 p.m.

Court records show a man killed by Maryland state troopers after a standoff Friday was charged
with making illegal drugs and had been in danger of losing his home in Baltimore.

William Charles M ackenzie
William Charles Mackenzie's wife told police that he pulled out a handgun while they argued
T hursday night and told her "this ends today." She said they struggled over the gun, which fired
without hitting either of them before she escaped and called for help. Police surrounded the house,
but he refused to surrender. T hey fatally shot him after he hit two troopers in the legs.

Court records show Mackenzie was charged in 2014 with manufacture of a controlled dangerous
substance, conspiracy to manufacture and marijuana possession. T hose charges were put on hold
with no verdict entered.

His home was in foreclosure at one point, though state records still list him as the owner.

And he once accused his wife, Linda Mackenzie, of stealing money from him, but prosecutors
declined to pursue that case.

Maryland State Police now say that the man troopers fatally shot after a lengthy standoff in
western Maryland was 66 years old, not 52.

T hey say William Charles M ackenzie
County Medical Center.

William Charles Mackenzie was declared dead Friday morning at the Washington

T he two state troopers who were shot in their legs have been released from a trauma center in
Baltimore.

A state police statement says the case remains under investigation and will be sent to prosecutors
in Allegany County for review.

Maryland State Police say a standoff that ended this morning with a suspect dead and two
troopers wounded began with a domestic violence call just before midnight.

Officers say the man's wife told police that they were arguing when her husband pulled out a gun
and said "this ends today." She said they struggled and fell and the gun went off before she
escaped to a neighbor's house to call for help.

T he police statement says troopers established a perimeter around the house in Little Orleans,
Allegany County. Police said he refused to surrender and said he was not coming out.

As a Special Tactical Assault Team Element began to enter the home, police say the suspect
ignited a fire and then shot at the troopers, who fired back.

T he officers were taken to a trauma center in Baltimore with leg wounds and later released from
the hospital. T he suspect was pronounced dead at a nearby medical center.

___

1:15 p.m.

___

12:30 p.m.

___

12:12 p.m.

A man has been shot dead and two state troopers have been wounded following a standoff in
Maryland.

T he Cumberland T imes-News reported Friday the standoff began late Thursday at a home in Little
Orleans, Allegany County, which is near the Pennsylvania border.

T he troopers were flown about 120 miles (193 kilometers) to Baltimore to be treated for leg

wounds at a trauma center. Maryland State Police said the troopers were conscious and alert.

William Charles M ackenzie.
Maryland State Police identified the suspect as 52--year-old William Charles M ackenzie

Police said the incident began with an argument between Mackenzie and his wife. He allegedly
pulled out a handgun, telling her "this ends today."

A struggle ensued. Husband and wife fell to the ground and the gun went off. She escaped,
running to a neighbor's house and calling the police.

T he police response was large, with tactical units of camoflauged and well-armed troopers
surrounding the home. T he troopers tried to communicate with Mackenzie using a loudspeaker
from an armored vehicle, but they said he refused to surrender.

T actical assault team officers finally entered the residence Friday morning. State police said
Mackenzie fired at the troopers, hitting their "lower extremities" before they returned fire, killing
him.

As the troopers entered, a fire had started inside the home. Police said they believe Mackenzie
started the blaze, which fire personnel extinguished.

___

Information from: Cumberland (Md.) T imes-News, http://www.times-news.com/timesnew.html

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
The Latest: Suspect who shot state police had - Associated Press State
Wire: Maryland (MD) - January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maryland (MD)

LIT T LE ORLEANS, Md. (AP) — T he Latest on a standoff that ended with a suspect dead and two
officers wounded (all times local):

Court records show a man killed by Maryland state troopers after a standoff Friday was charged
with making illegal drugs and had been in danger of losing his home in Baltimore.

William Charles M ackenzie
William Charles Mackenzie's wife told police that he pulled out a handgun while they argued
T hursday night and told her "this ends today." She said they struggled over the gun, which fired
without hitting either of them before she escaped and called for help. Police surrounded the house,
but he refused to surrender. T hey fatally shot him after he hit two troopers in the legs.

Court records show Mackenzie was charged in 2014 with manufacture of a controlled dangerous
substance, conspiracy to manufacture and marijuana possession. T hose charges were put on hold
with no verdict entered.

His home was in foreclosure at one point, though state records still list him as the owner.

And he once accused his wife, Linda Mackenzie, of stealing money from him, but prosecutors
declined to pursue that case.

Maryland State Police now say that the man troopers fatally shot after a lengthy standoff in
western Maryland was 66 years old, not 52.

T hey say William Charles M ackenzie
County Medical Center.

William Charles Mackenzie was declared dead Friday morning at the Washington

T he two state troopers who were shot in their legs have been released from a trauma center in
Baltimore.

A state police statement says the case remains under investigation and will be sent to prosecutors
in Allegany County for review.

3:20 p.m.

___

1:15 p.m.

___

12:30 p.m.

Maryland State Police say a standoff that ended this morning with a suspect dead and two
troopers wounded began with a domestic violence call just before midnight.

Officers say the man's wife told police that they were arguing when her husband pulled out a gun
and said "this ends today." She said they struggled and fell and the gun went off before she
escaped to a neighbor's house to call for help.

T he police statement says troopers established a perimeter around the house in Little Orleans,
Allegany County. Police said he refused to surrender and said he was not coming out.

As a Special Tactical Assault Team Element began to enter the home, police say the suspect
ignited a fire and then shot at the troopers, who fired back.

T he officers were taken to a trauma center in Baltimore with leg wounds and later released from
the hospital. T he suspect was pronounced dead at a nearby medical center.

___

12:12 p.m.

A man has been shot dead and two state troopers have been wounded following a standoff in
Maryland.

T he Cumberland T imes-News reported Friday the standoff began late Thursday at a home in Little
Orleans, Allegany County, which is near the Pennsylvania border.

T he troopers were flown about 120 miles (193 kilometers) to Baltimore to be treated for leg
wounds at a trauma center. Maryland State Police said the troopers were conscious and alert.

William Charles M ackenzie.
Maryland State Police identified the suspect as 52--year-old William Charles M ackenzie

Police said the incident began with an argument between Mackenzie and his wife. He allegedly
pulled out a handgun, telling her "this ends today."

A struggle ensued. Husband and wife fell to the ground and the gun went off. She escaped,
running to a neighbor's house and calling the police.

T he police response was large, with tactical units of camoflauged and well-armed troopers
surrounding the home. T he troopers tried to communicate with Mackenzie using a loudspeaker
from an armored vehicle, but they said he refused to surrender.

T actical assault team officers finally entered the residence Friday morning. State police said
Mackenzie fired at the troopers, hitting their "lower extremities" before they returned fire, killing
him.

As the troopers entered, a fire had started inside the home. Police said they believe Mackenzie
started the blaze, which fire personnel extinguished.

___

Information from: Cumberland (Md.) T imes-News, http://www.times-news.com/timesnew.html

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
The Latest: Police say suspect began fire, shot at - Associated Press
State Wire: Maryland (MD) - January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maryland (MD)

LIT T LE ORLEANS, Md. (AP) — T he Latest on a standoff that ended with a suspect dead and two
officers wounded (all times local):

12:30 p.m.

Maryland State Police say a standoff that ended this morning with a suspect dead and two
troopers wounded began with a domestic violence call just before midnight.

Officers say the man's wife told police that they were arguing when her husband pulled out a gun
and said "this ends today." She said they struggled and fell and the gun went off before she
escaped to a neighbor's house to call for help.

T he police statement says troopers established a perimeter around the house in Little Orleans,
Allegany County. Police said he refused to surrender and said he was not coming out.

As a Special Tactical Assault Team Element began to enter the home, police say the suspect
ignited a fire and then shot at the troopers, who fired back.

T he officers were taken to a trauma center in Baltimore with leg wounds and later released from
the hospital. T he suspect was pronounced dead at a nearby medical center.

___

12:12 p.m.

A man has been shot dead and two state troopers have been wounded following a standoff in
Maryland.

T he Cumberland T imes-News reported Friday the standoff began late Thursday at a home in Little
Orleans, Allegany County, which is near the Pennsylvania border.

T he troopers were flown about 120 miles (193 kilometers) to Baltimore to be treated for leg
wounds at a trauma center. Maryland State Police said the troopers were conscious and alert.

William Charles M ackenzie.
Maryland State Police identified the suspect as 52--year-old William Charles M ackenzie

Police said the incident began with an argument between Mackenzie and his wife. He allegedly
pulled out a handgun, telling her "this ends today."

A struggle ensued. Husband and wife fell to the ground and the gun went off. She escaped,
running to a neighbor's house and calling the police.

T he police response was large, with tactical units of camoflauged and well-armed troopers
surrounding the home. T he troopers tried to communicate with Mackenzie using a loudspeaker
from an armored vehicle, but they said he refused to surrender.

T actical assault team officers finally entered the residence Friday morning. State police said
Mackenzie fired at the troopers, hitting their "lower extremities" before they returned fire, killing
him.

As the troopers entered, a fire had started inside the home. Police said they believe Mackenzie
started the blaze, which fire personnel extinguished.

___

Information from: Cumberland (Md.) T imes-News, http://www.times-news.com/timesnew.html

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Lengthy standoff in Maryland ends with shooter - Free Lance-Star, The
(Fredericksburg, VA) - January 27, 2018 - page 4A
January 27, 2018 | Free Lance-Star, The (Fredericksburg, VA) | Page 4A

by the associated press

LIT T LE ORLEANS, Md.-Maryland State Police say a man who threatened his wife with a gun and
said "this ends now" was fatally shot Friday morning, resolving a lengthy standoff, after igniting a
fire and shooting at troopers who finally entered his home.

T wo state troopers were flown about 120 miles (193 kilometers) to a trauma center in Baltimore,
where they were treated for leg wounds and released. Police said William Charles M ackenzie
William Charles M ackenzie,
66, was pronounced dead at a hospital near the home in Little Orleans, in western Maryland.

A state police statement says the confrontation began late Thursday night. T he man's wife told
officers that they had been arguing when he drew a gun and threatened her. T hey struggled and
fell and the gun went off, she said. T hen she escaped to a neighbor's house and called for help.

T he police response was large, with tactical units of camouflaged and well-armed troopers
surrounding the home. T he troopers tried to communicate with Mackenzie using a loudspeaker
from an armored vehicle, but they said he refused to surrender.

T actical assault team officers finally entered the residence Friday morning. State police said
Mackenzie fired at the troopers, hitting their "lower extremities." T hey returned fire, killing him.
Police also said they believe Mackenzie ignited a fire inside the home as troopers entered. Fire
personnel and troopers put it out.

"State police were negotiating with him throughout this whole process to try to end this situation
as peacefully as possible," said Ron Snyder, a state police spokesman.

Mackenzie has had previous legal troubles. In 2014, he was charged with manufacture of a
controlled dangerous substance, conspiracy to manufacture a controlled dangerous substance
and possession of marijuana. T he charges were put on hold indefinitely and no guilty verdict was
entered.

Mackenzie's home in Baltimore was in foreclosure proceedings at one point, but he is still listed on
state property records as the owner.

Online court records show that Mackenzie accused his wife, Linda Mackenzie, of stealing from him
in 2015. She was charged with theft of $10,000 to under $100,000, 3rd-degree burglary and 4th-
degree burglary of a dwelling. Court records show prosecutors declined to move forward with the
case.

Snyder said the Maryland State Police Homicide Unit is investigating, and will provide its conclusions
to the Allegany County State's Attorney's Office for review.

© Copyrig ht 2018, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg , VA

 
Police: Standoff ends with man dead, 2 troopers - Carroll County Times
(Westminster, MD) - January 27, 2018 - page 6A
January 27, 2018 | Carroll County Times (Westminster, MD) | Kevin Rector | Page 6A

LIT T LE ORLEANS - A man in a domestic dispute with his wife was fatally shot by a Maryland State
Police tactical team after he shot and wounded two of the unit's members as they entered his
Allegany County home during a barricade situation early Friday morning, police said.

T he man, whom police as William Charles M ackenzie
transferred for treatment to the Washington County Medical Center, police said.

William Charles M ackenzie, 66, was pronounced dead after being

T he two troopers who were shot, each in their lower extremities, were both conscious and alert as
they were flown to University of Maryland Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore in a police medevac
helicopter, police said.

State troopers first responded to the couple's home in the 11300 block of High Germany Road in
Little Orleans, an isolated town between Hagerstown and Cumberland in Western Maryland, at
about 11 p.m. Thursday for a domestic call, police said.

When police arrived, the man's wife told them that she and her husband had been "engaged in an
argument" when the man allegedly brandished a handgun and threatened her with it, saying, "T his
ends today," police said.

T he man "refused police requests to surrender and repeatedly said he was not coming out," police
said.

Sometime early Friday, members of the state police Special Tactical Assault Team Element, or
ST AT E, team entered the home, and the exchange of gunfire occurred, police said.

T here was also a fire in the home, which police believe the suspect started around the time of their
entry.

T he state police homicide unit is investigating the incident. T he results of the investigation will be
turned over to the Allegany County State's Attorney's Office for review, police said.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Carroll County Times, Westminster, MD. All rights reserved.

 
INVESTIGATION CONTINUES AFTER 2 TROOPERS SHOT, - US Fed News
(USA) - January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | US Fed News (USA)

LIT T LE ORLEANS, Md., Jan. 26 -- T he Maryland State Police issued the following news release:

Police continue to investigate an overnight barricade in Allegany County that injured two troopers
and fatally wounded the suspect after a seven hour standoff with police.

After firing multiple rounds at police and injuring two state troopers, William Charles M ackenzie
William Charles M ackenzie,
66, of Little Orleans, was fatally wounded by police during an overnight barricade in Allegany
County. EMS provided medical treatment to Mackenzie on the scene. He was transported to the
WMHS, Western Maryland Health System, in Cumberland, where he was later pronounced
deceased.

T he two troopers who were shot during the incident are not being identified at this time. T hey are
members of the Special Tactical Assault Team Element, or ST AT E team. T hey were flown by
Maryland State Police medevac to the University of Maryland R Adams Cowley Shock T rauma
Center in Baltimore, where they were treated for their injuries and later released.

Both troopers were struck by gunfire originating from inside the home. Investigators believe
Mackenzie was alone in the house and in his bedroom when he fired several rounds through a
window toward police on the perimeter. Police believe Mackenzie had multiple firearms in the
home.

Shortly after 11:30 p.m. last night, Maryland State Police at the Cumberland Barrack received a9-1-
1 call from Mackenzie's wife. T he wife informed police that she and her husband had been in an
argument when he threatened her with a gun at their home on the 11,000 block of High Germany
Road.

She said a struggle ensued between the two of them and they fell to the ground. As they fell, the
gun reportedly fired at least one round. T he wife was able to escape the residence and run to a
neighboring house approximately 200 yards away to call for help.

Police from Cumberland Barrack and allied police agencies arrived on scene to establish a
perimeter. Police negotiators announced their presence and attempted to make contact with
Mackenzie. Police called his cell phone, but all calls were directed to voicemail.

Members of the ST AT E team used the loudspeaker on their armored vehicle, commanding
Mackenzie to exit the home unarmed. Throughout the night, Mackenzie refused multiple police
requests to surrender and repeatedly said he was not coming out.

Shortly before 7:30 a.m., Mackenzie fired multiple shots from a bedroom window, striking two

members of the ST AT E team who were near the perimeter. Police did not fire in return. Mackenzie
continued to refuse directions to surrender.

According to the ongoing investigation, it was just after 8:30 a.m. and without warning, that
Mackenzie exited the house which appeared to be on fire. Mackenzie brandished a handgun and
pointed toward police, ignoring continued commands to drop the weapon. Police fired and
wounded Mackenzie, disarming him of his weapon. Emergency medical treatment was
immediately provided on the scene. Mackenzie was transported to the Washington County
Regional Medical Center where he was later pronounced deceased.

T he Maryland State Police Homicide Unit is conducting the investigation, as is procedure in police
involved shootings. Investigators have determined a trooper from the Maryland State Police fired
his agency issued firearm. He has been placed on administrative leave, as is procedure pending the
outcome of the investigation. Upon completion, the investigation will be provided to the Allegany
County State's Attorney's Office for review.

Fire personnel on the scene extinguished the fire, with assistance from troopers. T he Office of the
State Fire Marshal leads the investigation into the cause of the fire.

Assistance during this situation was provided by a number of public safety agencies. T hey included
C3I, the Allegany County Sheriff's Office, the Cumberland Police Department, the Little Orleans
Volunteer Fire Department, and State Police from the Cumberland Barrack, Criminal Enforcement
Division, and the Aviation Command.

T he investigation is continuing.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
content.services@htlive.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 US Fed News, via HT Dig ital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved.

 
UPDATE: New details in Little Orleans trooper - Cumberland Times-
News, The (MD) - January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | Cumberland Times-News, The (MD) | Jeffrey Alderton, jlalderton@times-news.com

UPDAT E: LIT T LE ORLEANS — A High Germany Road man was shot dead by police Friday, shortly
after he shot two Maryland State Police troopers during an hours-long standoff at his home.

William Charles M ackenzie, 66, was taken by ambulance to Western Maryland Regional Medical
William Charles M ackenzie
Center in Cumberland where he was pronounced dead, police said.

State police spokesman Ron Snyder said Mackenzie was shot after fire broke out at the residence
around 8:30 a.m. and then pointed a handgun at approaching troopers. T he cause of that fire is
under investigation, although police initially said Mackenzie set it.

T he trooper who fired the fatal shot was placed on routine administrative leave.

T he injured troopers, who were not identified, suffered gunshot wounds to the leg and were flown
to the R Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore by Trooper 5 medevac helicopter.

Both troopers, members of the Maryland State Police Special Tactical Assault Team Element,
were treated and later released.

T hey were shot as they approached the residence from the back side of the property, Snyder said.
Mackenzie reportedly fired the shots from a bedroom window of the single-story frame home.

Other team members rescued the injured troopers, who reportedly remained conscious and alert
after they were wounded.

Snyder said it was not known if the handgun used to shoot the troopers was the same weapon
that Mackenzie pointed at troopers before he was fatally wounded.

Snyder said Mackenzie "had multiple weapons in the house."

Police said it was after 11 p.m. Thursday when Mackenzie's wife returned home and the couple
began to argue.

Mackenzie reportedly told his wife "this ends tonight" before he produced a handgun, Snyder said.
T he couple engaged in a struggle before the wife, who was not identified, was able to escape and
run through woods to take refuge at a neighbor's residence.

She was not injured.

Police were notified and a barricade situation developed with negotiators attempting to peacefully

resolve the matter, Snyder said.

Mackenzie repeatedly declined to exit the residence despite requests from state police, Snyder
said. A police loudspeaker was used to communicate with Mackenzie, who repeatedly failed to
answer police calls to his telephone.

"T hey were negotiating with him the whole time. T hey didn't stop. T hey wanted this situation to
end peacefully," Snyder said.

T he incident remains under investigation by state police.

Assistance at the scene was provided by the Cumberland Police Department and the Allegany
County Sheriff's Office.

Fire companies from Allegany, Washington and Mineral County, West Virginia, fought the blaze,
reporting it out just before 11 a.m. T he Orleans Volunteer Fire Department led the firefighting
operation. T he Maryland State Fire Marshal's Office was also at the scene.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Cumberland Times-News / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 
UPDATE: Barricade situation at Little Orleans - Cumberland Times-
News, The (MD) - January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | Cumberland Times-News, The (MD) | CUMBERLAND TIMES-NEWS, ctn@times-news.com

LIT T LE ORLEANS — A suspect was shot dead and two troopers wounded Friday following a night-
long standoff at a home in the 11000 block of High Germany Road in eastern Allegany County.

Maryland State Police said the injured troopers were flown by medevac helicopter to the R Adams
Crowley Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore.

T he suspect, William Charles M ackenzie
Hagerstown where he was pronounced dead, police said.

William Charles M ackenzie, 52, was taken to Meritus Medical Center in

T he incident began at about 11 p.m. when the suspect and his wife argued before the man
allegedly brandished a handgun. T he female victim escaped the residence and ran to a neighbor's
house for help.

T he Maryland State Police Special Tactical Assault Element responded and team members used a
loudspeaker from an armored vehicle to communicate with the suspect.

T he suspect reportedly refused to surrender and told police he was not coming out of the
residence.

T roopers attempted to contact the suspect by telephone. He failed to answer repeated calls
before the loudspeaker was used to establish communications.

Details surrounding the shooting of the suspect and the wounding of the troopers were not
immediately available.

Check back at times-news.com for updates.

BACKGROUND

UPDAT E: 9:42 a.m.: Maryland State Police confirms a suspect has been pronounced dead at the
scene.

UPDAT E 8:45 a.m.: Two police officers have been shot during a standoff at a Little Orleans Road
home.

Both officers were reportedly flown to the R Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore for
treatment of leg injuries.

Multiple fire companies are now battling a fire at the residence.

LIT T LE ORLEANS — A barricade situation continued at daylight Friday at a High Germany Road
location where law enforcement responded sometime through the night.

Maryland State Police said only that troopers were on scene. No further information was provided.

Allegany County deputies also responded to the scene along with troopers from Washington
County.

Radio communications at the scene during the incident indicated shots were fired late T hursday
night, causing a female victim to flee the residence to a neighbor's house. A man reportedly
remained inside the dwelling at that time.

Later unconfirmed reports indicated that injuries had occurred and an ambulance was dispatched
to the scene.

Check back at times-news.com. T his story will be updated as additional information becomes
available.

UPDAT E: Two police officers have been shot during a standoff at a Little Orleans Road home.
https://t.co/L8KkZKtAHy" CumberlandT imes-News (@CumberlandT N) January 26, 2018

Barricade situation at Little Orleans https://t.co/JGE3r36y4a" CumberlandT imes-News
(@CumberlandT N) January 26, 2018

V-Day Cumberland benefit readings set https://t.co/3vubjjf1gw" CumberlandT imes-News
(@CumberlandT N) January 26, 2018

Proceeds help BW athletes https://t.co/v218QgsRXJ" CumberlandT imes-News (@CumberlandT N)
January 26, 2018

Copyrig ht 2018, The Cumberland Times-News / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 


 
ROUND ROCK - Police officers shot and killed a man in Round Rock early Saturday after responding to reports of a

prowler, officials said. They said the man fired at the officers when they tried to arrest him. 

Police received a call about 3 a.m. that a man dressed in black was walking around cars near the 1900 block of

Red Rock Drive. The two arriving officers found a man who matched the description and discovered that he had an

active warrant for his arrest, officials said. 

When the officers tried to arrest him, officials said, there was a struggle and the man drew a gun and fired at them.

They said the officers, who were not hit, fired back and shot the man. 

He was taken to a hospital in critical condition, officials said, but he was pronounced dead Saturday night. Police

identified him as 21-year-old Richard Rangel. 

treated at the scene for minor injuries. 

Police would not say what Rangel's warrant was for or give further information about him. The officers were

The two officers, whose names were not released, will remain on leave pending an investigation, as per protocol.

They were wearing body cameras at the time of the shooting, a police spokesman said. 

The last officer-involved shooting involving a Round Rock officer was in 2013, according to a police spokesman. 

Ofelia Melendez, who lives across the street from the site of the shooting, said she heard from her neighbors that

their security system had awoken them and they had seen the man near their car. They then saw him on

surveillance cameras walking from their house to Melendez's house, and thought he had a gun. 

The neighbors tried to call with a warning, but Melendez and her family slept through the call and the shooting,

awakening only to the hubbub of police outside. Their cars did not show signs of a break-in, she said. 

"It's scary," said Melendez, who has lived on Red Rock Drive 12 years. "The neighbors are all asking on this email

app, Do you know what happened?' " 

Others walking their dogs early Saturday echoed her shock when they saw police tape blocking a side street. 

Police had taped off the street alongside the home whose residents tried to warn Melendez and along a cluster of

The house has signs warning of a home security system with surveillance. A woman who answered the door there

Melendez said she remembers a rash of burglaries about eight years ago, but said otherwise it's a quiet

neighborhood. The incident Saturday should serve as a wake-up call to communicate with one another, Melendez

"Our neighborhood is still really safe; we just have to be more vigilant of our security and neighbors, so when

something like this happens we can call each other," she said. 

bushes and trees in the backyard.  

declined to comment. 

said. 

Contact Elizabeth Findell  

at 512-445-3696. 

Illustration 

Caption: A Round Rock Police Crime Scene Unit worker documents evidence from an early morning shooting by

officers Saturday. The officers were responding to a call about 3 a.m. that a man dressed in black was walking

around cars near the 1900 block of Red Rock Drive. RALPH BARRERA / AMERICAN-STATESMANOfficers remain at

the scene Saturday in Round Rock. The officers who responded to the initial call said they found a man who

matched the description and discovered he had a warrant for his arrest. RALPH BARRERA / AMERICAN-

STATESMAN 
 
 



 
ROUND ROCK - Round Rock police identified two officers involved in a fatal shooting early Saturday as Sgt.

Christopher Ybarra and officer Noah Moncivais. 

Ybarra, who has worked at the Round Rock Police Department for 14 years, was the only officer that fired a shot,

said Nick Olivier, a police spokesman. Ybarra has not been involved in any prior officer-involved shooting, Olivier

said. 

pay pending an investigation, Olivier said. 

Moncivais has served eight years with the department. Both men have been placed on administrative leave with

The man who was shot Saturday morning, 21-year-old Richard Rangel of Taylor, died that night at a local hospital. 

Police received a call about 3 a.m. Saturday that a man dressed in black was walking around cars near the 1900

block of Red Rock Drive. The two arriving officers found a man who matched the description, later identified as

Rangel, and discovered he had an active arrest warrant for burglary, Olivier said. 

When the officers tried to arrest him, officials said, there was a struggle and the man drew a gun and fired at them.

Information about the warrant that was out for Rangel was not available Monday. 

Rangel was convicted of robbery in 2015 after he broke into a home in Taylor , according to an arrest affidavit. A

relative of the homeowner saw Rangel crawling out the back window , but Rangel threatened to kill him, the

affidavit said. Rangel was sentenced to four years in prison with credit for time served, according to a document. 

Contact Claire Osborn at 512-246-0040. 

Ybarra fired back. 

Twitter: @cosbo4 
 
 

Suspect, 21, shot by Round Rock police dies at - Associated Press State
Wire: Texas (TX) - January 7, 2018
January 7, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Texas (TX)

ROUND ROCK, Texas (AP) — A man police say opened fire on Central Texas officers investigating
reports of a suspicious person in a neighborhood has died after being shot by police.

Round Rock police say 21-year-old Richard Rang el
shot before dawn Saturday during a struggle with officers trying to arrest him amid reports of a
man dressed in black near some vehicles.

Richard Rangel died Saturday night at a hospital. Rangel was

Police also determined Rangel had an active warrant for this arrest. Further details on the warrant
weren't immediately released.

Lt. Jimmy Keyes says no officers were shot but some were treated for minor injuries. Two officers
who returned fire have been placed on leave amid the investigation.

Further details weren't immediately released.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
Jan. 06--ROUND ROCK -- 6:45 p.m. update: Round Rock police said Saturday night that the man shot by officers,

21-year-old Richard Rangel, has died from his injuries. 

3:45 p.m. update: 

Police officers shot and critically wounded a man in Round Rock early Saturday morning after responding to

reports of a suspicious person, police officials said. They said the man fired at officers when they attempted to

arrest him. 

his arrest, officials said. 

Police received a call about 3 a.m. that a man dressed in black was walking around cars near the 1900 block of

Red Rock Drive. Officers found a man there who matched the description and found he had an active warrant for

When officers tried to arrest the man, officials said, there was a struggle and the man drew a gun and fired at

police. The officers, who were not hit, returned fire and shot the man, they said. 

The man was taken to a hospital in critical condition, police said. 

They would not say what the suspect's warrant was for, or any identifying information about him. The officers were

treated at the scene for minor injuries. 

time of the shooting, a spokesman said. 

The two officers involved will remain on leave pending an investigation. They were wearing body cameras at the

Ofelia Melendez, who lives across the street from where the shooting occurred, said she heard from her neighbors

that their security system had awoken them and they'd seen the man near their car. Then, they saw him on

surveillance cameras walking from their house to Melendez's house, and thought he had a gun. 

The neighbors tried to call with a warning, but Melendez and her family slept through the call and the shooting,

awakening only to the hubbub of police outside. Their cars did not show signs of a break-in. 

"It's scary," said Melendez, who has lived in her house on Red Rock Drive 12 years. "The neighbors are all asking on

this email app, 'Do you know what happened?'" 

She remembers a rash of burglaries about eight years ago, but otherwise said it's a quiet neighborhood. The

incident Saturday came as a wake-up call to communicate with each other, Melendez said. 

"Our neighborhood is still really safe, we just have to be more vigilant of our security and neighbors, so when

something like this happens we can call each other," she said. 

CREDIT: By Elizabeth Findell 
 
 



A crisis we must deal with - Citrus County Chronicle (Crystal River, FL)
- February 24, 2018
February 24, 2018 | Citrus County Chronicle (Crystal River, FL) | Staff Writer

T he violence in Florida over the past 10 days has been excruciating. T he murder of 17 young
people at the high school in Parkland is a national tragedy that demands a legislative and moral
response.

My daughter-in-law is an alumnus of the high school, so it hit close to home.

T he tragedies we experienced in our own community over the same weekend were just as
horrifying. T he death of Ryan B atchelder
months of opportunities for mental health and VA folks to respond to the warning signals.

Ryan Batchelder was unavoidable in the final moments, but there were

T he murder of Erin Prost in Homosassa was yet another sign of how out of control things have
gotten.

Ryan B atchelder
Ryan Batchelder was an Army veteran who was shot and killed by sheriff's deputies last Saturday
after a confrontation in Hernando.

Batchelder, 28, was stationed in Afghanistan and was being treated for service-related PT SD.

As reported in the Chronicle this week, Ryan's mother made a desperate call to the sheriff's office
on Saturday afternoon warning that he had overdosed on his meds and was not in a good state of
mind. Ryan's wife worked at a local Hernando business and there was fear for her safety.

By the conclusion of the confrontation, Ryan lay dead in the parking lot of a Hernando shopping
center and the lives of so many people had been changed forever.

T he background tragedy is that the family knew Ryan needed help and had been trying to get
counseling from the VA. Appointments were hard to get and pushed out many weeks.

Mental illness does not respond well to waiting periods.

T his young man served his country and experienced combat. While he did not die on the battlefield,
he died as a result of his service and a lack of urgency after he returned home.

Now the victims include his wife and child; his family; and the officers who were injected into a
situation that ended in Ryan's death.

On the same day Erin Prost, 42, of was shot and killed in her home in Homosassa. Her boyfriend,
Bruce Leonard, is suspected of the crime but we will never know the details. He turned the gun on
himself after he shot his girlfriend.

Erin was a waitress at the Crab Plant in Crystal River and was loved by her fellow workers and
customers.

Less than 12 hours after these tragedies, the Chronicle published the start of a series of stories
about the lack of mental health services in our community. T he publication of the stories was a
coincidence, but there was no greater reinforcement of the importance of this crisis than what
happened to Ryan and Erin last week.

People die every week in our own county because we do a miserable job in providing mental health
services. T he VA is an awful bureaucracy dragged down by a lack of funding and urgency. T he
Centers, the official agency charged with mental health care in Citrus County, has a limited
footprint and very few services.

Citrus County in general is served by a few over-worked private providers and a scattering of
government services. T he funding through the state and Medicaid is almost non-existent.

T he Chronicle is going to spend a lot of time over the next 12 months digging into this issue and
shedding light on the problem.

Most of us have ignored this so long that it has become an epidemic that too often spills into the
headlines because of the violence and mayhem that ensues. Our approach to mental health
problems is too often calling a sheriff's deputy to Backer Act an individual during the crisis. T hat
serves almost no purpose because the individual is usually released within a few days with no
treatment or remedy for the underlying problem.

In Ryan's case the problem can be tied back to his service to our country. So many others enter
the world of despair thru the abuse of drugs and alcohol. Any many others have imbalances that
only health care professionals can figure out.

When we ignore the drug and mental health problem, we end up with violence in the streets.
People die way too young and the lives of people around them are shattered.

Many of the property and vehicle crimes we have in this community can be tied directly to those
abusing drugs. Our jails are filled — at a huge cost to every taxpayer — with people who suffer
from drug or mental health problems.

T here has got to be a better way of dealing with these problems before they make the front page
of the paper. I don't know what the answers are, but we are going to spend time searching for
them and bringing them to your attention.

T ogether we can explore and embrace some solutions. We owe that to Ryan and Erin and all the
other victims.

Gerry Mulligan is the publisher of the Chronicle. Email him at gmulligan@chronicleonline.com.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Citrus County Chronicle, Landmark Community Newspapers LLC (LCNI). All rights reserved.

 
Dad watched as deputies shot son - Citrus County Chronicle (Crystal
River, FL) - February 18, 2018
February 18, 2018 | Citrus County Chronicle (Crystal River, FL) | CARLY ZERVIS

A Hernando man killed by deputies Saturday evening after ramming his car into a patrol vehicle told
his mother he planned to kill his wife and himself, the man's family said Sunday.

Ryan B atchelder, 28, was armed when he was shot by two Citrus County Sheriff's deputies in the
Ryan B atchelder
Hernando Plaza parking lot, sheriff's spokeswoman Lindsay Blair said Sunday.

Blair said Batchelder pointed his weapon at deputies prior to the crash but she would not say if he
discharged it. T he Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating and the two deputies,
Ryne Rainey and Mike Anger, were placed on administrative leave with pay as per agency policy.
Both have been with agency a short time — Anger's hire date is Jan. 17, 2017 and Rainey was hired
in July, Blair said.

Batchelder served in Afghanistan with the Vermont Army National Guard in his mid 20s prior to
moving to Florida, and suffered from combat-related depression, family members said Sunday.

His mother, Lisa Batchelder, said Ryan told her he was driving to the Xtreme Games 3 in the
Hernando Plaza where his wife Samantha worked to kill her and then himself.

Lisa Batchelder said she alerted authorities and her husband.

"I called 911 and gave them as much information as I could. T hey said that Samantha was safe
and we didn't know where Ryan was," she said. "I had hoped that he would come back here, so I
stayed here until Mike called me and told that Ryan was dead."

Michael Batchelder, rushing home from work after getting his wife's call, stopped at the plaza in
Hernando. He saw Ryan drive into the parking lot and ram his car into CCSO cruisers. He said he
didn't see his son fire a shot.

"I was 15 feet away from my boy. I could see every round hit his body," Michael said Sunday. "I
even begged them to stop...I know he intended to do harm, but I thought that was a little
extreme."

James Greer manages the internet cafe where Ryan B atchelder
customer were in the cafe when Ryan B atchelder
evening.

Ryan B atchelder's wife works. She and a

Ryan Batchelder arrived in the parking lot early Saturday

He told Samantha and the customer to get into rooms at the back of the building and get down
low, Greer said Sunday.

"At the time I didn't even think about it," he said. "I just did what I thought I needed to do."

Greer said he thought he saw Ryan fire in the direction of the deputies.

Blair said both deputies were outside their vehicles in the parking lot when Ryan B atchelder
in at a high rate of speed, crashing into Rainey's patrol car. Neither deputy was shot, though
Rainey was injured in the crash and hospitalized briefly Saturday, Blair said.

Ryan Batchelder drove

Deputies were alerted from the 911 call to spot a blue Kia Sedona. T hey saw the car in Hernando
and began to pursue Batchelder north on State Road 200 but they called off the pursuit due to
Batchelder's rate of speed, Blair said.

Batchelder was then spotted driving south on County Road 491, then U.S. 41 toward Hernando.
Attempts to stop his vehicle were unsuccessful until he slammed into the cars in the parking lot,
Blair said.

Batchelder, who was divorced, married Samantha in December.

"He struggled a lot with PT SD and depression...but he was still family oriented," Samantha
Batchelder said. "T hat was his life."

His parents knew he struggled, too. T hey moved to Citrus County from Vermont after Ryan did to
"help him out," Lisa Batchelder said. Ryan and Samantha were living with his parents in Hernando.

"He didn't talk about it much," Lisa Batchelder said of her son's deployment at Bagram Air Force
Base in Afghanistan.

"He had swapped shifts with a friend because he was tired, and the gate at Bagram got raided,"
she said. "His friend who had replaced him and some other friends had gotten killed. He said that it
should have been him."

Ryan B atchelder
Ryan B atchelder's wife and parents all spoke of his difficulties getting help. Samantha said he
hadn't been to the VA clinic since last April.

"He said it always took too long," she said. "T hat he had to wait months for an appointment."

His mom agreed, recalling that after Ryan told her Saturday afternoon that he was going to kill his
wife and himself, she asked him if she could get him some help.

"He said, 'Something happened yesterday and it just shut me off. I'm disconnected from myself,'"
she recalled. "I said, 'Can I call the VA, the health department?' He said 'T hey don't help me.' T he
last time he was depressed it was six months before he got an appointment."

Ryan's wife and parents also agreed that he hadn't given anyone any indication that he could turn
violent.

"He never laid a finger on me," Samantha said of her husband.

"T here was no precursor," his father said.

"When we got home, we were looking in his room, to see that red flag, that something…" his
mother added. "I'm hearing these different things and I want it to be known that my kid needed
help."

Staff writer Mike Wright contributed to this report.

Editor's note: T his story has been updated to clarify that the deputies were placed on
administrative leave with pay, not suspended.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Citrus County Chronicle, Landmark Community Newspapers LLC (LCNI). All rights reserved.

 
‘He’s sick of the pain,’ mother of man shot - Citrus County Chronicle
(Crystal River, FL) - February 20, 2018
February 20, 2018 | Citrus County Chronicle (Crystal River, FL) | MIKE WRIGHT

Lisa Batchelder's voice was frantic and desperate.

Her son Ryan had just stormed off, armed and threatening to kill his wife and himself.

"He's a veteran and he overdosed on his meds," she said. "He's not in a good state of mind. He
almost ran me over when I tried to stop him."

T hat call to 911 came at 3:45 p.m. Saturday. Two hours later, her son was shot by Citrus County
Sheriff's Office deputies after he ended a pursuit through Hernando by ramming his Kia minivan
into a deputy's car parked in a plaza parking lot. He died on the scene.

T he Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating the incident.

T he sheriff's office released to the Chronicle recordings of five 911 calls it received Saturday.
Although the names of 911 callers are exempt from public disclosure, Mrs. Batchelder told a
reporter on Sunday that she called 911 after her son left their house.

During the nearly 19-minute phone call, Mrs. Batchelder told a dispatcher that her son served in
Afghanistan and was being treated for post-traumatic stress disorder. She said he was unable to
get timely appointments with the Veterans Administration clinic, and a recent marital problem had
set him off.

"I tried to get him to tell me, 'What's your plan? If you don't have a plan, then it's just a thought,'"
Mrs. Batchelder told 911.

T he dispatcher asked: "What do you think Ryan's going to do if he sees the officers?"

Mrs. Batchelder replied she wasn't sure.

"He's a good kid," she said. "I don't perceive that he'll do anything. T hen again, he's emotionally,
'Oh my God!' He's had a bad situation going to Afghanistan. Since he's come back, he's not the
same."

Sheriff's deputies responded to the Hernando Plaza where Ryan B atchelder
worked at the Xtreme Games 3 internet cafe, waiting for Batchelder in case he showed up.

Ryan B atchelder's wife, Samantha,

Deputies spotted Batchelder's car and began to pursue it north on State Road 200, calling off the
pursuit because of Batchelder's speed, officials said.

A motorist on S.R. 200 called in to 911 a reckless driver.

"T here's a blue minivan driving crazy," the caller said. "He had to be going 100 mph just weaving in
and out. He ran two cars off the road. Ran us off the road."

T he caller said the minivan turned south onto County Road 491, where deputies picked up the
pursuit to U.S. 41 and south through Hernando. Sheriff's officials said Batchelder drove through
Hernando to Parsons Point Road and made his way back to U.S. 41 heading north as attempts to
stop the minivan were unsuccessful.

Officials said he drove at a high rate of speed directly into the Hernando Plaza parking lot at the
S.R. 200 apex, slamming into a deputy's parked car.

T hey said Batchelder displayed the weapon to deputies during the chase, but would not say
whether he fired it after the crash.

A witness told the Chronicle he heard three gunshots and deputies returning fire.

Batchelder's father, Michael, had arrived at the business prior to his son and said Sunday that he
witnessed the shooting.

He was working and called 911 after receiving a call from his wife.

"I was going to see if I could head down and de-escalate the situation," he told a dispatcher,
according to the recording.

Michael Batchelder said his son was in possession of a handgun.

"He's very proficient in weapons," he said in the 911 call.

(T he sheriff's office would not comfirm that Michael Batchelder made the call; however, during the
call, he referred to Ryan's mother as his wife.)

Michael and Lisa Batchelder told a reporter on Sunday that their son served with the Vermont
National Guard during his mid-20s. When Ryan moved to Florida his parents followed to help him
out, they said.

Mrs. Batchelder told dispatchers that her son had trouble getting appointments with the VA
despite his medical condition. His parents could not get through to him, either.

"He wouldn't let me call the VA to get him help," she said. "He said, 'T hey don't help. We risk our
lives for the country and the VA doesn't do (expletive).'"

T he two deputies involved in the shooting, Ryne Rainey and Mike Anger, were placed on
administrative leave with pay as per agency policy. Both officers were outside their vehicles when
Batchelder rammed the cruiser, and Rainey was hospitalized briefly Saturday with injuries from the
crash, sheriff's officials said.

Mrs. Batchelder said she pleaded with her son to stay home.

"I told him if he left, 'You're not going to do something stupid. You need to figure this out,'" she
said in the 911 call. "He said no. He's sick of the pain."

Contact Chronicle reporter Mike Wright at 352-563-3228 or mwright@chronicleonline.com.

Editor's note: T his story has been updated to clarify that the deputies were placed on
administrative leave with pay, not suspended.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Citrus County Chronicle, Landmark Community Newspapers LLC (LCNI). All rights reserved.

 
Hernando chase ends with deputies killing armed - Citrus County
Chronicle (Crystal River, FL) - February 17, 2018
February 17, 2018 | Citrus County Chronicle (Crystal River, FL) | MIKE WRIGHT

Citrus County Sheriff's Office deputies killed an armed man Saturday evening after a high-speed
chase through Hernando that ended when the man drove into a shopping plaza and rammed a
deputy's vehicle, authorities said.

A deputy who was outside his vehicle when the suspect's vehicle slammed into the parking lot was
hospitalized with non-life-threatening injuries sustained in the crash, sheriff's spokeswoman
Lindsay Blair said.

T he suspect, 28-year-old Ryan B atchelder
said.

Ryan Batchelder of Hernando, was pronounced dead on the scene, she

T he incident started when someone called 911 at about 5 p.m. to report a man was making
threats to shoot someone at the Xtreme Games 3 at the U.S. 41/State Road 200 apex. T he caller
gave dispatchers a description of his vehicle: a blue Kia Sedona.

Deputies spotted the vehicle in Hernando and began pursuit north on State Road 200. Blair said
the pursuit was called off because of the suspect's excessive speed.

T he sheriff's office alerted the Marion County Sheriff's Office and Citrus deputies stayed in the
Hernando vicinity, Blair said.

A short time later, deputies found Batchelder speeding south on County Road 491, and then
southbound on U.S. 41 back toward Hernando. Batchelder passed the Xtreme game store and
pointed a firearm at deputies, Blair said.

Several attempts to stop the vehicle, including using stop strips along the road, were unsuccessful,
she said.

Batchelder ran the red light at the U.S. 41 apex with S.R. 200, entering the Hernando Plaza parking
lot at a high rate of speed, she said.

He slammed his vehicle into a sheriff's patrol car, which in turn pushed the patrol car into three
other parked vehicles.

Deputies fired upon Batchelder's vehicle, Blair said. T hey were able to get him out of the Kia but he
died a short time later, she said.

Asked if Batchelder fired at the deputies, Blair said she could not say because the matter had been
turned over to the Florida Department of Law Enforcement for investigation.

Will Welch, manager of the nearby Burger Station on U.S. 41, said customers who were out on the
restaurant's patio rushed inside after seeing deputies armed with rifles running by.

Welch said he brought in the customers and locked the doors. He said he went out back to make
sure there were no customers in the parking lot when he saw the Kia speeding by and into the
parking lot, colliding with the deputy's car.

Welch said he then heard three shots.

"I heard three distinct pistol pops," he said.

He said those shots were immediately followed by a barrage of gunfire from sheriff's deputies.

"It was bedlam for seven or eight minutes," Welch said.

He said after hearing pistol shots, he came back into the restaurant and ordered everyone to the
floor, away from the windows. He said he told customers and his four employees that there was
shooting occurring outside.

"I told everyone to get down," he said.

T he shooting closed a portion of U.S. 41 for several hours Saturday night.

T his is the second shooting involving a sheriff's deputy in pursuit in four days. On T hursday, a
deputy shot and injured a man following a pursuit in Homosassa when the suspect tried to ram his
vehicle and run him over, authorities said. T hat man is facing an attempted-murder charge.

Sheriff Mike Prendergast said in a statement late Saturday night: "T his is a very tragic turn of
events, where a man lost his life. We are very thankful that our officers were not seriously injured
and that the many citizens who were very close to this extremely dangerous situation did not
suffer from catastrophic injuries."

Contact Chronicle reporter Mike Wright at 352-563-3228 or mwright@chronicleonline.com.

Editor's note: T his story has been updated to correct the suspect's first name.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Citrus County Chronicle, Landmark Community Newspapers LLC (LCNI). All rights reserved.

 

Gunman killed in standoff ID’d - Express-Times, The (Easton, PA) -
March 22, 2018 - page A3
March 22, 2018 | Express-Times, The (Easton, PA) | S.P. Sullivan | Page A3

PRINCET ON

State authorities have identified the man killed by police after an armed standoff at a Panera Bread
restaurant in Princeton on T uesday.

Scott M ielentz
Scott Mielentz , 56, was shot and killed after police negotiators spent several hours trying without
success to convince him to “surrender peacefully,” according to a statement from the Attorney
General’s Office.

Mielentz, who formerly lived in Newtown, Pennsylvania, and recently resided in Lawrenceville, was
pronounced dead at the scene.

T he tense standoff began around 10 a.m. T uesday, and police were seen crouched with their guns
drawn behind vehicles on Nassau Street, a block from Princeton University’s Nassau Hall.

Customers and employees escaped the building, authorities said, but Mielentz remained inside.

He was shot and killed by police shortly before 3 p.m., according to the Attorney General’s Office.

T he incident is being investigated by the attorney general’s Shooting Response T eam, which
oversees police shooting investigations and, in most cases, presents the evidence to a grand jury
for review.

Authorities declined to identify the officers involved.

S.P. Sullivan, NJ Advance Media, ssullivan@njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht 2018 The Express-Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
Officials ID man killed in Princeton standoff - Jersey Journal, The
(Jersey City, NJ) - March 22, 2018 - page 024
March 22, 2018 | Jersey Journal, The (Jersey City, NJ) | By S.P. Sullivan NJ Advance Media | Page 024

State authorities have identified the man killed by police after an armed standoff at a Panera Bread
restaurant in Princeton on T uesday.

Scott Mielentz , 56, was shot and killed after police negotiators spent several hours trying without
Scott M ielentz
success to convince him to “surrender peacefully,” according to a statement from the Attorney
General’s Office.

Mielentz, who formerly lived in Newtown, Pa., and recently resided in Lawrenceville, was
pronounced dead at the scene.

T he tense standoff began around 10 a.m. T uesday, when police were seen crouched with their
guns drawn behind vehicles on Nassau Street, a block from Princeton University’s Nassau Hall.

Customers and employees were able to escape the building, authorities said, but Mielentz
remained inside. He was shot and killed by police shortly before 3 p.m., according to the Attorney
General’s Office.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Jersey Journal. All Rights Reserved. Used by NewsBank with permission.

 
Video shows fatal end to standoff - Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ) - April
10, 2018
April 10, 2018 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ) | Alex Napoliello

Princeton

A man armed with a BB gun who was killed by police inside a Panera Bread restaurant last month
raised his gun and pointed it in the direction of the officers before he was fatally shot in the head
and upper torso, according to video released by authorities Monday to media outlets.

T he state Attorney General’s Office emphasized that point in text edited over a copy of the
surveillance video from inside the restaurant in Princeton.

T he five-minute video shows a split screen of two vantage points inside the restaurant. One is
from behind an officer, who is pointing an M4 rifle at Scott M ielentz
handgun at his waist. T he other angle is a side view of Mielentz.

Scott Mielentz , who is seen holding a

Mielentz, 56, was shot after he kept authorities at bay for five hours on March 21. Customers and
employees escaped the building, and no one else was injured.

T he shooting remains under investigation. T he video footage was released in response to
requests under the state’s Open Public Records Act and common law.

At about the 3½-minute mark in the video, authorities say, Mielentz raises the gun and points it at
the officers. An officer crouched behind a trash basket can be seen firing his M4 rifle at Mielentz.

Mielentz was a self-described “loner” who suffered from hallucinations, anxiety and depression
after a stint in the Army, according to information found in public records.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Star-Ledg er. All Rights Reserved. Used by NewsBank with Permission.

 
Officials identify gunman killed in Princeton - Associated Press State
Wire: New Jersey (NJ) - March 21, 2018
March 21, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New Jersey (NJ)

PRINCET ON, N.J. (AP) — Authorities identified the man killed by police after an armed standoff at a
restaurant near Princeton University.

Officials said Wednesday that 56-year-old Scott M ielentz
New Jersey, but was previously a Newtown, Pennsylvania, resident.

Scott Mielentz  most recently lived in Lawrenceville,

Other details about the shooting were not available.

New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal says no one else was injured Tuesday at the Panera
Bread restaurant across from Princeton's campus.

It was not clear what sparked the roughly five-hour standoff.

T he confrontation led authorities to shut down Princeton's downtown area, and two campus
buildings were evacuated as a precaution. T he university is on spring break.

Armed officers were staged outside the restaurant with their weapons drawn during part of the
negotiations.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
ATTORNEY GENERAL'S SHOOTING RESPONSE TEAM - US Fed News
(USA) - March 20, 2018
March 20, 2018 | US Fed News (USA)

T RENT ON, N.J., March 20 -- T he New Jersey Attorney General issued the following news release:

T he deceased man has been identified as Scott M ielentz
and most recently lived in Lawrenceville, N.J. No further details of the shooting are being released
at this time due to the ongoing investigation.

Scott Mielentz , 56, who formerly lived in Newtown, Pa.,

In New Jersey, all investigations into police deadly force incidents are governed by the Attorney
General's Independent Prosecutor Directive - issued in 2006 and strengthened in 2015 - which
establishes strict procedures for conducting the investigations, and requires the Attorney General
to review all such investigations, and in some cases conduct them as well. T he directive provides
that unless the undisputed facts indicate that the use of force was justified under the law, the
circumstances of the incident must ultimately be presented to a grand jury, composed of 23
civilians, for its independent review.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
content.services@htlive.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 US Fed News, via HT Dig ital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved.

 
Police: Video shows gunman aimed at cops before he - Associated Press
State Wire: New Jersey (NJ) - April 9, 2018
April 9, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New Jersey (NJ)

PRINCET ON, N.J. (AP) — Authorities in New Jersey have released surveillance video they say shows
that a man pointed a pistol in the direction of officers before he was shot and killed during a
standoff at a restaurant near Princeton University.

Fifty-six-year-old Scott M ielentz
Panera Bread restaurant.

Scott Mielentz , of Lawrenceville, was killed by state troopers March 20 at the

T he state attorney general's office says officers were called to the restaurant just before 10:30
a.m. Princeton's downtown area was shut down and two buildings were evacuated at the
university, which was on spring break.

Officials say the man refused during hours of negotiations to drop the gun, which was later
determined to be a BB pistol.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
State troopers 'justified' in deadly Princeton - Trentonian, The (Trenton,
NJ) - November 9, 2018
November 9, 2018 | Trentonian, The (Trenton, NJ) | Isaac Avilucea

PRINCET ON — T he state police troopers who fatally shot a suicidal man who was involved in an
hourslong standoff inside a Panera Bread near the famous Ivy League university had attempted to
use a stun gun on him but couldn't because he was "too far away" from them inside the eatery,
authorities said.

T he report, issued nearly eight months after the fatal encounter, filled in gaps of the final hours
Scott Mielentz , who was armed with a BB pistol when he barricaded himself inside the
before Scott M ielentz
restaurant on March 20, was fatally shot by two State Police SWAT  members after nearly five
hours of negotiations.

At one point, the 56-year-old Mielentz, of Lawrence, held up a $5,000 check and told negotiators it
was supposed to go to his son when he died, according to the state Attorney General's Office,
which on Friday released the findings of its investigation into the police-involved shooting.

T he standoff ended when State Police TEAMS unit members, William Kerstetter and Joseph
T rogani, in tactical gear and armed with M4 rifles, shot and killed Mielentz when he raised the BB
pistol toward them following nearly five tense hours of negotiations.

T he report, issued in compliance with a statewide police use-of-force directive, cleared the state
police troopers saying their deadly force was justified and there was no need to put the matter
before a grand jury.

T he AG's office determined the "undisputed facts indicated the use of force was justified under the
law."

"An officer may use deadly force in New Jersey when the officer reasonably believes it is
immediately necessary to protect the officer or another person from imminent danger of death or
serious bodily harm," the report stated.

It was later determined that Mielentz, a former IT  worker who was experiencing personal and
mental health issues that forced him into extreme debt, was armed with a BB gun.

But the AG's office said investigators interviewed police officers involved in the standoff who
believed the BB gun was a real firearm capable of killing them.

T he standoff, which was captured by the restaurant's surveillance system -- portions that were
released publicly -- began the morning of March 20 at the Panera Bread on Nassau Nassau Street,
where Mielentz planned to meet a friend.

It caused normally placid Princeton to grind to a halt, as roads were closed off and businesses put
on lockdown while the drama unfolded.

Mieletnz had begun the conversation with his friend at the restaurant by talking about suicide and
saying he had a gun, authorities said.

Mielentz drew a black pistol and shouted, "I have a gun. Everyone out," according to the AG's
statement. Police raced to the restaurant, and customers and employees darted for the doors,
after receiving 911 calls around 10:30 a.m.

On one of those calls, obtained by T he T rentonian, one of Mielentz's friends was heard telling
police that Mielentz was suicidal.

Mielentz had also sent a friend a text message that morning saying he wanted to end his life,
according to records obtained by this newspaper.

"I was just sitting with him. He doesn't want to hurt anybody," caller Richard Chrisman told the
dispatcher, saying he knew Mielentz. "He just wants to hurt himself."

Princeton Police officer Jennifer Gering was the first to encounter Mielentz when she arrived at the
Panera Bread around 10:40 a.m., as a phalanx of local, state and federal authorities descended
upon the restaurant.

T he authorities said Mielentz pointed his BB pistol at her, but she didn't open fire.

During the standoff, Mielentz called a female friend and told her he wanted the police to shoot him.

Other Princeton cops entered the Panera Bread through the back of the store and tried to talk
Mielentz down. He responded by saying, "Shoot me, just shoot me."

Mielentz told the officers that he was in pain and that the government had cut off his OxyContin,
according to the AG's office, also falsely claiming was a Vietnam veteran and had killed 1,000
people during the war.

T he officers described Mielentz as erratic.

T he T rentonian discovered court records that exposed his sad history.

Mielentz, who lived in Newtown, Penn., before relocating to Lawrence, N.J., spent time in a
psychiatric hospital in 2013, had crushing debt and admitted he didn't handle stress well.

He claimed to have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder from his time as an Army ranger
involved in "covert operations" during the late 1970s in the Vietnam War and said he was plagued
by "hallucinations, flashbacks and anxiety."

But sources said Mielentz wasn't old enough to serve by the time the Vietnam War ended in 1975,
and had only briefly served in the armed forces for a matter of months.

And a doctor who treated him at Chelsea Community Hospital in August 2013 wrote in admission
notes Mielentz didn't have any VA benefits.

T hroughout the standoff, Mielentz ignored officer commands to drop the gun and instead pointed
the gun at the officers and at his own head.

T EAMS members and crisis negotiators tried to peacefully resolve the standoff, but Mielentz
became "increasingly agitated" and refused to surrender, authorities said.

Kerstetter T rogani, who were positioned in the back of the restaurant behind a dining booth and
trash bins, had their guns trained on Mielentz while negotiators told him they understood his
struggles and offered him food.

T EAMS members "evaluated" whether he could use a stun gun on Mielentz, but determined that
Mielentz was too far away, according to the AG's report.

When negotiators asked if they could help Mielentz, he responded, "Yes, shoot me," the AG's office
said.

Police witnesses also reported Mielentz made several statements about wanting to commit police-
assisted suicide, including: "Just kill me. Do it for me, guys"; "Just do this, guys. I'm going to shoot
you, guys. Don't make me do this"; "It's either going to be you or me."

T he AG's office described an endless "cycle of Mielentz's "agitated behavior" in which he stood up,
began to raise the BB gun toward the officers, only to sit down and put the gun down.

At one point, he smoked a cigarette during the standoff, but never relinquished control of the gun,
repeatedly pointing it at his chin and head.

"Officers said he seemed to be building up his courage. He approached police several times, raising
the gun a little higher each time. He told officers he would give them a five count and counted
down from five," the report said.

Officers commanded Mielentz to "Put the gun down" and "Soldier, put that gun down," prior to the
2:54 p.m. shooting, which was caught on tape.

Right before he was shot, Mielentz "smoked a cigarette, extinguished it on the floor with his foot,
and then spread his legs while facing the officers," the report stated.

T hen he counted down from five and raised the gun.

Kerstetter and T rogani fired their M4 rifles, with Kerstetter unloading four rounds, and T rogani
firing one round.

Mielentz's autopsy confirmed that he died of gunshot wounds to the head and upper torso.

T oxicology reports showed he had traces of an anti-anxiety drug, diazepam, in his system.

Copyrig ht 2018, Trentonian, The (Trenton, NJ) - a Journal Register Company Property, All Rights Reserved.

 
Dash-cams capture parts of failed negotiations - Trentonian, The
(Trenton, NJ) - April 11, 2018
April 11, 2018 | Trentonian, The (Trenton, NJ) | Isaac Avilucea

T RENT ON - Panera Bread gunman Scott Mieletenz knew he would be killed during an hourslong
standoff with police last month when he barricaded himself inside the restaurant wielding what
turned out to be a BB pistol.

"I'm gonna die," a distressed Mielentz is heard yelling at officers.

Stretches of the tense five-hour-long standoff were captured by Princeton Police officers' dash-
camera audio released by the state Attorney General to T he T rentonian through a public records
request.

Princeton cops are equipped with external microphones hooked up to dash cams that allowed
officers to capture Mielentz's dramatic interactions with cops and negotiators who tried to get him
to surrender before state police troopers William Kerstetter and Joseph T rogani fatally shot him in
the head and torso with M4 rifles around 2:54 p.m. inside the Nassau Street restaurant across
from Princeton University.

A negotiator is heard asking Mielentz if he believed in a higher power, quoting scripture to try to
calm him down and even plying him with cigarettes.

"We must pass through enormous suffering before we find hope," the negotiator said at one
point, emphasizing he was there to "help you get the help that you need."

"I don't doubt for a second you've been through a lot," the negotiator said. "I can tell by the tone
of your voice. … I'm committed to helping you 110 percent. I care about you."

T he audio provided an incomplete account of the negotiations during the standoff since parts of
conversations with Mielentz cut out or are drowned out by radio chatter. T he videos released to
T he T rentonian ended around 11:24 a.m., leaving more than two hours of negotiations
unaccounted for including the moments before Mielentz was killed.

In the audio obtained and reviewed by T he T rentonian, Mielentz, a former IT  worker who was
battling mental health problems that caused him to fall deeply into debt, is faintly heard
complaining to officers about being unemployed and losing his house and wife.

Officers implored Mielentz to drop his weapon and take it away from his head but they couldn't get
him to peacefully surrender, authorities said.

Surveillance footage from inside the restaurant released earlier this week showed Mielentz raising
and pointing what appeared to be black handgun at state troopers staked out inside the

restaurant. More footage from different angles inside the restaurant obtained by T he T rentonian
showed cops hugging and shaking hands inside the restaurant after the shooting.

After fatally shooting Mielentz, cops discovered the gun was a BB pistol, officials said. T hey also
discovered Mielentz's backpack as a bomb-sniffing dog was brought in to clear the restaurant.

T he dash-cam audio from Princeton Police officers Jennifer Gering and Sgt. Thomas Lagomarsino
captured the first hour or so of the standoff that started around 10:30 a.m. when one of the first
911 calls came in.

Police came into contact with Mielentz around 10:31 a.m.

Dash-cam video captured the inside and outside of the patrol car as Gering, who first encountered
Mielentz, raced to the restaurant. She is heard telling colleagues she could see Mielentz from her
position outside the restaurant.

"Where is he?" Gering says before shouting, "Gun, gun, gun. He's got a gun. He just pointed it at
me."

Gering didn't open fire despite saying Mielentz pointed the gun in her direction.

As officers closed in and set up a perimeter to contain the Panera gunman inside the restaurant,
many cops repeatedly shouted for Mielentz to drop his weapon.

Cops communicated about Mielentz's movements, as the gunman paced back and forth inside the
store, apparently ducking behind the counter and then reappearing.

Mielentz pointed the gun toward his head during the standoff. At one point, he shouted at officers,
"I'm gonna die."

"You're not gonna die," one of the officers responded. "We all want to go home today, sir. We can
help you, sir. We don't want to hurt you. Let us help you. We know you're going through a hard
time."

Authorities called for a negotiator and state police SWAT  team around 10:35 a.m.

T he negotiator arrived with officers from the state police's Technical Emergency and Missions
Specialists (T EAMS), and the negotiator was first heard on the dash-cam audio at 10:47 a.m.

T he AG's office wouldn't name the negotiator heard on the tape, claiming he was one of many
who tried to get Mielentz to give himself up.

T he negotiator told Mielentz he was "willing to go the distance" to ensure he came away
unharmed.

He tried reasoning with Mielentz, who identified himself as an Army veteran, by telling him he was
in the presence of two combat vets, including a Purple Heart recipient.

Mielentz at one point appeared to tell the negotiator he wouldn't hurt him. T he gunman
complained of being out of work.

Court records showed he filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy claiming more than $122,000 in debt. T he
feds went after him for disability fraud, claiming he was working while getting benefits.

Mielentz, who had described himself as a Vietnam vet suffering from hallucinations and flashbacks,
told the negotiator he was in pain and wanted medication.

Apparently seated for parts of the standoff, Mielentz unnerved cops when he suddenly stood up.

"We were making progress," the negotiator said, trying to get him to sit back down. "Now we took
a step back. Have another smoke and let's talk some more."

Editor's Note: Video was edited by T he T rentonian before posting to YouTube to just include
pertinent clips.

Copyrig ht 2018, Trentonian, The (Trenton, NJ) - a Journal Register Company Property, All Rights Reserved.

 
Video shows Panera gunman's last moments - Trentonian, The (Trenton,
NJ) - April 9, 2018
April 9, 2018 | Trentonian, The (Trenton, NJ) | Isaac Avilucea

Surveillance footage released by the state Attorney General's Office shows the Panera gunman in
the last moments of his life, raising what appeared to be a black handgun from his waist toward
combat-gear clad officers staked out inside the chain eatery.

T he nearly five minute soundless clip from inside the store – an annotated version which was
released Monday – shows 56-year-old Scott M ielentz
Scott Mielentz  standing several feet away from the
officers near the drink machine as a TEAMS officer has an M4 rifle trained on him from behind a
wooden bench inside the restaurant.

Sources had previously told T he T rentonian that Mielentz, who had crushing debt and financial
problems, was intent on committing suicide by cop when he went to the restaurant with a gun
March 20, leading to a five-hour-long standoff with police.

T hat was backed up by records obtained by T he T rentonian that showed Mielentz had texted a
friend about wanting to end his life the morning of the standoff.

T he AG's office said two officers from the state police's Technical Emergency and Missions
Specialists with M4 rifles fired on Mielentz around 2:54 p.m. after he pointed what looked like a gun
in his right hand at the officers. Documents obtained by T he T rentonian identified the police
shooters as troopers William Kerstetter and Joseph T rogani. Kerstetter is a 14-year veteran and
T roggani has 15 years with state police, according to pension records.

Mielentz, who was pronounced dead at the scene, was struck in the head and the torso as officers
converged on him.

Investigators later determined the gun Mielentz wielded during the tense encounter was a BB
pistol, officials said.

T he shooting remains under investigation by the AG's Shooting Response T eam, but the office
released the tape in response to public records requests, including one from T he T rentonian.

Mielentz was a former IT  worker who went through bouts of unemployment. T he feds went after
him for fraud after he received disability benefits while they said he was simultaneously working.

Mielentz had also identified himself as a Vietnam War veteran, but he was not old enough to serve
in the military at the time the war ended in 1975.

He had spent time in a psychiatric facility in 2013, and the doctor wrote in the admission notes
Mielentz didn't have any VA benefits but was working to try to get them. Sources said Mielentz was

only in the armed forces a matter of months.

Copyrig ht 2018, Trentonian, The (Trenton, NJ) - a Journal Register Company Property, All Rights Reserved.

 
911 tapes fill in gaps in Princeton Panera Bread - Trentonian, The
(Trenton, NJ) - April 5, 2018
April 5, 2018 | Trentonian, The (Trenton, NJ) | Isaac Avilucea

PRINCET ON - Frantic 911 calls to police give a glimpse into the chaos that overtook Princeton
when a gunman last month barricaded himself inside the Panera Bread on Nassau Street next to
the famous Ivy League university.

A caller told a dispatcher he knew the gunman, Scott M ielentz
the drinks were located inside the chain eatery. T he caller said Mielentz wanted to take his own life
which confirmed information police received earlier that morning.

Scott Mielentz , who was in a booth near where

"I was just sitting with him. He doesn't want to hurt anybody," caller Richard Chrisman told the
dispatcher, saying he knew Mielentz. "He just wants to hurt himself."

Chrisman fled to a building next to the eatery, abandoning his phone inside the restaurant. He used
another phone to call 911, describing to the dispatcher Mielentz as being around 5 feet 7 inches tall
with gray hair, clad in a dark-colored coat with "Michigan" on it.

T he 56-year-old Mielentz was killed after a five-hour-long standoff with police March 20 inside the
chain eatery. He was fatally shot by an unnamed officer or officers whom the Attorney General's
Office still hasn't publicly identified.

Authorities identified Mielentz a day after the fatal police shooting.

T he AG's Shooting Response Team is still investigating the circumstances of the police shooting,
but documents and 911 tapes obtained by T he T rentonian shed some light on the situation that
overtook the normally placid university town.

Mielentz didn't take hostages when he barricaded himself inside the Panera bread around 10:30
a.m. while frightened patrons escaped out the back of the eatery.

According to a Princeton computer-aided dispatch report, Mielentz had a gun pointed toward his
head and was threatening to kill himself. He sent a friend a text message that morning saying he
wanted to end his life, according to the records.

T he dispatcher told Chrisman, who T he T rentonian was unable to reach, that police had also
received information that morning saying Mielentz was missing.

Princeton Police officer Jennifer Gering was the first to encounter Mielentz when she arrived at the
Panera Bread around 10:40 a.m., according to the documents, as a phalanx of local, state and
federal authorities descended upon the restaurant.

On one of the three 911 calls obtained by T he T rentonian someone is heard in the background
shouting "drop the gun."

Mielentz, who lived in Newtown, Penn., before relocating to Lawrence, N.J., spent time in a
psychiatric hospital in 2013, had crushing debt and admitted he didn't handle stress well, according
to court documents.

He claimed to have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder from his time as an Army ranger
involved in "covert operations" during the late 1970s in the Vietnam War and said he was plagued
by "hallucinations, flashbacks and anxiety."

Sources said Mielentz, who wasn't old enough to serve by the time the Vietnam War ended in
1975, briefly served in the armed forces for a matter of months, and a doctor who treated him at
Chelsea Community Hospital in August 2013 wrote in admission notes Mielentz didn't have any VA
benefits.

Mielentz claimed he was honorably discharged, which T he T rentonian hasn't independently verified,
and suffered from chronic debilitating pain, depression, and overwhelming debt compounded by
bouts of unemployment, according to court records.

T he feds went after Mielentz for unemployment fraud, and he was forced to file for Chapter 7
bankruptcy claiming $122,498 in debts and only $6,670 in assets and owed about $6,826 to the
IRS.

Mielentz had mounting bills from credit card companies, doctors and owed $42,911 in student
loans, records showed.

He had driven his Ford Focus with Pennsylvania plates — impounded by cops — to the restaurant
before entering the restaurant with a handgun, according to the records.

A Panera worker told a dispatcher employees and customers evacuated and were waiting outside
in the back of the restaurant for cops to arrive.

T he employee admitted he didn't see Mielentz but believed he was armed with a .22-caliber
handgun. T he AG's office hasn't said what kind of weapon Mielentz had or how he obtained it.

Copyrig ht 2018, Trentonian, The (Trenton, NJ) - a Journal Register Company Property, All Rights Reserved.

 
Officials: Gunman took aim at police - Video - Times, The (Trenton, NJ) -
April 10, 2018 - page A1
April 10, 2018 | Times, The (Trenton, NJ) | Alex Napoliello | Page A1

princeton

A man armed with a BB gun who was killed by police inside a Panera Bread restaurant last month
raised his gun and pointed it in the direction of the officers before he was fatally shot in the head
and upper torso.

T he state Attorney General’s Office made the assertion in text edited over a copy of the
surveillance video footage from inside the restaurant in Princeton.

T he five-minute video shows a split screen of two different vantage points from inside the
restaurant. One vantage point is from behind an officer, who is clad in black tactical gear and is
pointing an M4 rifle at Scott M ielentz
Scott Mielentz , who is seen holding a handgun at his waist. T he other
angle is a side view of Mielentz.

Mielentz, 56, was shot after he kept authorities at bay for five hours in the afternoon on March 21.
Customers and employees were able to escape the building, and no one else was injured during the
incident.

T he shooting remains under investigation by the Attorney General’s Office’s Shooting Response
T eam. T he office released the video footage, along with 911 calls and CAD reports, in response to
requests under the state’s Open Public

Records Act and common law.

T he video released by the Attorney General’s Office starts with a 911 call from a patron inside the
restaurant, who tells a dispatcher that “T here’s a guy with a gun at Panera.”

Police descended on the Nassau Street location, a block from Princeton University’s Nassau Hall,
around 10 a.m.

Police negotiators spent several hours trying without success to convince Mielentz to “surrender
peacefully,” according to a statement from the Attorney General’s Office.

He was pronounced dead inside the restaurant shortly before 3 p.m.

T he footage released by the attorney general doesn’t have audio, so the negotiating tactics used
by police cannot be heard.

T he video shows Mielentz holding a black gun by his waist but pointing it at officers. Authorities

later determined the gun was a Crosman PFM BB gun.

Around the 3½-minute mark in the video, authorities say, Mielentz raises the gun and points it at
the officers.

An officer crouched behind a trash basket can be seen firing his M4 rifle at Mielentz.

Several other officers, who are also decked out in tactical gear with protective shields, can be seen
rushing over to Mielentz as he lay motionless on the ground.

Mielentz was a self-described “loner” who suffered from hallucinations, anxiety and depression
after a stint in the U.S. Army, according to information found in public records.

Alex Napoliello, NJ Advance Media, anapoliello @njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Times, Trenton N.J. All Rights Reserved.

 
Authorities identify man killed after armed - Star-Ledger, The (Newark,
NJ) - March 22, 2018
March 22, 2018 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ) | S.P. Sullivan

Princeton

State authorities have identified the man killed by police after an armed standoff at a Panera Bread
restaurant in Princeton on T uesday.

Scott M ielentz
Scott Mielentz , 56, was shot to death after police negotiators spent several hours trying without
success to convince him to “surrender peacefully,” according to a statement from the Attorney
General’s Office.

No one else was injured in the confrontation, said the office.

Mielentz, who formerly lived in Newtown, Pennsylvania, and recently resided in Lawrenceville, was
pronounced dead at the scene.

T he standoff began around 10 a.m. T uesday, when police were seen crouched with their guns
drawn behind vehicles on Nassau Street, a block from Princeton University’s Nassau Hall.

T he university evacuated Henry House and Scheide Caldwell House, the two campus buildings
closest to the restaurant. In a statement T uesday, the Ivy League school noted that students were
on spring break.

Nassau Street was closed between Washington and Witherspoon streets as nearby businesses
were evacuated.

Customers and employees were able to escape the building, authorities said, but Mielentz
remained inside. He was shot and killed by police shortly before 3 p.m., according to the Attorney
General’s Office.

T he incident is being investigated by the attorney general’s Shooting Response T eam, which
oversees police shooting investigations and, in most cases, presents the evidence to a grand jury
for review.

Authorities declined to identify the officers involved.

NJ Advance Media staff writer Anthony G. Attrino and the Associated Press contributed to this
report.

S.P. Sullivan, NJ Advance Media, ssullivan@njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Star-Ledg er. All Rights Reserved. Used by NewsBank with Permission.

 
New video footage shows fatally shot Panera gunman - Daily
Princetonian, The: Princeton University (NJ) - April 9, 2018
April 9, 2018 | Daily Princetonian, The: Princeton University (NJ)

T he New Jersey Attorney General’s Office has released surveillance videos showing that the late
Scott M ielentz
Scott Mielentz , who was killed by state police officers at the Panera Bread at 136 Nassau St. on
March 20, was armed with a black Crosman PFM BB Pistol.

Computer-Aided Dispatch reports released with the video show that at 10:28 a.m. on March 20,
the Princeton Police Department received a call from a man reporting “there’s a guy with a gun at
Panera.”

T he pistol in Mielentz’s hand was later determined to have actually been a BB pistol.

T he video, which was published in Planet Princeton, shows state police officers engaged in a
standoff with Mielentz from behind Panera’s trash and recycle depositories. Troopers were armed
with M4 rifles, according to Planet Princeton. T he standoff lasted five hours.

T he video shows that at approximately 2:54 p.m., two members of the New Jersey State Police
T echnical Emergency and Mission Specialists Unit fired at Mielentz, striking him in the head and
torso.

T he video also shows that immediately before state police fired, Mielentz raised his BB gun
towards them.

T he New Jersey Attorney General’s Office is investigating the use of deadly force by police.

Suggested Articles

Panel discusses military approaches in the information age Pride Alliance posters ripped, torn down
Modest and radical proposals gets rekt 2k18 Panel discusses military approaches in the
information age Pride Alliance posters ripped, torn down Modest and radical proposals gets rekt
2k18

Copyrig ht © 2018 UWIRE, a division of Uloop, All rights reserved.

 


 
VtDigger 

Williston, Vt. —Vermont State Police said the man shot and killed by police Sunday afternoon on Interstate 89 was

pointing a gun to his own head and walking toward the officers, refusing their orders to put down the firearm. 

Trooper Christopher Brown and Richmond Police Cpl. Richard Greenough were identified on Monday as the law

enforcement officers who fired a total of 12 shots. 

Benjamin Gregware, 42, of Sheldon, who was described by police as suicidal and who had told a trooper earlier that

he wanted to “end it,” was hit by three of the shots, in the head, torso and shoulder, according to Maj. Glenn Hall,

head of the state police’s criminal division. 

It was the third fatal shooting involving Vermont State Police in the past six months. State Police Director Col.

Matthew Birmingham said on Monday the agency is contracting with an outside consultant to review its policies

and procedures in such cases. 

“Certainly, there is great cause for concern when you have multiple officer-involved shootings in a short period of

time,” Birmingham told reporters at a press conference on Monday at the state police barracks in Williston. 

“One fatal shooting is too many in my opinion. These are very challenging, complicated and tragic events,”

Birmingham said. “As the director, I don’t want any fatal shootings to happen, but that’s not realistic.” 

Birmingham said the decision to order the review does not “insinuate” the agency has done anything wrong, but is

to ensure police are following best practices. 

Brown was involved in all three of the fatal shootings in the past six months. His involvement in the first two, in

Poultney in September and Montpelier last month, was as a member of the police tactical team. 

Brown, who joined the state police in 2012, also was involved in a non-fatal shooting in Fayston in 2015. 

In the Poultney and Fayston shootings Brown was cleared by prosecutors of any wrongdoing. The Montpelier

shooting remains under review by the Vermont Attorney General’s Office and the Washington County State’s

The Bolton shooting will be reviewed by the Vermont Attorney General’s Office and the Chittenden County State’s

Birmingham said on Monday that in accordance with a new process Brown has been placed on paid administrative

leave and will not return to duty until a legal review of the shooting in Bolton is complete, a process that could take

Attorney Office. 

Attorney’s Office. 

several months. 

“I worry about Trooper Brown and the impact that this is having on him,” Birmingham said. “These individual

incidents are looked at independently of each other, not collectively, because lethal force is a justification point

that occurs in a split second of time.” 

days on paid administrative leave. 

In past cases, state police policy had allowed troopers involved in shootings to return to duty after at least three

“This decision is not an indication of any wrongdoing by Trooper Brown, but merely a change in the way the state

police will now manage our response to officer-involved shootings as it relates to the health and well-being of our

members,” Birmingham said 

Brown was taken off the tactical team two weeks ago. Birmingham said on Monday he could not comment on the

decision to take Brown off the team, calling it a personnel matter. 

Birmingham said on Monday that cameras in the Brown and Greenough’s cruisers recorded the traffic stop, and

that Greenough also was wearing a body camera.  

Attorneys general; Tactical units; Firearms

Company / organization:

Name: State Police-Vermont; NAICS: 922120

Publication title:

Valley News; White River Junction, Vt.

CREDIT: By Alan J Keays 
 
 



 
Vt. Official: Officers Were Justified in Fatal Shooting 

Montpelier —Two police officers were justified in fatally shooting a distraught man who was holding a pistol to his

head by the side of a busy interstate with cars going by, Vermont’s top law enforcement officer said Friday. 

Attorney General T.J. Donovan released the results of his office’s investigation into the Feb. 11 death of 42-year-

old Benjamin Gregware, of Sheldon. He was shot multiple times by a state police trooper and a Richmond officer

after he refused orders to drop his weapon, a high-powered machine pistol that was later found to be loaded with

“It was a dynamic situation,” Donovan said during a Friday news conference in Burlington. “This was done on

Interstate 89 in Richmond with people coming home from skiing. And we are lucky there was not more of a tragedy

the safety off.  

that day.” 

Post-Prohibition Era Law Closes N.H. Brewery 

Hampton, n.h. —A New Hampshire restaurateur says he was forced to close his brewery because of a post-

Prohibition era federal law.  

Community Oven Owner Shane Pine closed Four Pines Brewing Company Monday. The law prevents him from

operating both except under certain exemptions. 

Pine said he was allowed to open Four Pines in July 2016 as part of the Community Oven by acquiring a brewpub

license for both the restaurant and brewery. After attempting to open another restaurant, the state told Pine it

would violate federal law to open another restaurant and keep the brewery. He kept the restaurant and closed the

brewery.  

A Liquor Commission spokesman says the law was created to prevent distributors from being pushed out of the

market by beer manufacturers selling their own beer directly. 

Vermont House Again Approves State Budget 

Montpelier —Lawmakers in the Vermont House have once again approved a state budget, but it doesn’t appear the

logjam with Republican Gov. Phil Scott has been cleared.  

The House Friday gave preliminary approval to the budget by a vote of 86-44. 

In a statement, Democratic House Speaker Mitzi Johnson says the bill raises no property taxes and reduces

income taxes by $30 million.  

But Scott spokeswoman Rebecca Kelley says House Democrats rejected amendments, including one that appears

to remove the one remaining point of dispute. She says the Democratic-led House is poised to submit yet another

budget that increases non-residential property tax rates by $23 million. 

Scott vetoed the original budget. 

Lawmakers have proposed several compromises, but Scott has refused to consider them, saying they would raise

property taxes. 

— Wire reports 

 
 


 
"Being assigned to the tactical unit elevates your exposure and potential involvement in situations where lethal

force is necessary. That is what they are called to manage, the most critical situations 

we have." 

Col. Matt Birmingham, commander of the Vermont State Police 

The commander of the Vermont State Police says it's unclear how a trooper who has been with the agency for six

years has become involved in four police shootings —three of them fatal. 

Col. Matt Birmingham added that Trooper Chris Brown's assignment to the state police Tactical Services Unit

increased Brown's chances to be involved in fatal incidents. Birmingham said the unit handles some of the most

dangerous situations the police agency sees. 

"When anybody ends up in a lethal-force situation, there's no rhyme or reason to it," Birmingham said. "It is

certainly unusual for a law-enforcement officer to be involved in four force incidents that involved the use of lethal

force, but there's anomalies in everything that we do. It doesn't necessarily mean that there's a problem. ... I don't

know if there is an answer to that question, but we're looking at it." 

Brown was one of two officers who shot and killed a man Sunday afternoon on Interstate 89 in Bolton. Benjamin

Gregware, 42, of Sheldon was pronounced dead at a hospital after Brown and Richmond police Cpl. Rick

Greenough opened fire at about 3:50 p.m. as motorists drove by on the highway. Investigators have said police

were responding to reports that Gregware was potentially impaired, armed with a gun and intending to take his

Including Sunday's incident, three of the four police shootings involving Brown, who was hired in 2012, have

own life. 

occurred in the past six months. 

for the change. 

According to Capt. John Merrigan, the leader of the Vermont State Police Tactical Services Unit as of late January,

Brown joined the team in October 2015. He was removed Jan. 30. Birmingham has declined to disclose the reason

Merrigan said the Tactical Services Unit deals with as few as 12 and as many as 30 incidents each year. According

to the state police's website, those incidents can involve armed barricaded suspects, suicidal people, hostage

situations, high-risk warrant service, manhunts, active shooters and other situations. 

"Being assigned to the tactical unit elevates your exposure and potential involvement in situations where lethal

force is necessary," Birmingham said. "That is what they are called to manage, the most critical situations we

have." 

police said. 

Mental health counselor Sonny Provetto, who works with police agencies across Chittenden County including the

state police, said Tuesday he knows of no evidence that shows officers who have fired at a person are more likely

to do so in the future. He said officers' responses to situations are based on training, not emotional reactions. 

The first police shooting involving Brown occurred in September 2015 in Fayston. Brown shot and injured Robert

Smallidge of Brattleboro after police said Smallidge displayed what Brown believed to be a rifle. During a search,

investigators located a plastic gun that appeared to be an air gun with a pistol grip and the barrel and stock cut off,

The Vermont attorney general and the Washington County state's attorney later concluded the shooting was

justified. 

Last September, Brown was involved in his second shooting. He was one of five members of the Tactical Services

Unit to shoot and kill Michael Battles, 32, in Poultney. The attorney general and the Rutland County state's attorney

concluded the shooting was justified. 

Then in January, Brown was among nine officers involved in the fatal shooting of bank-robbery suspect Nathan

Giffin on the athletic field of Montpelier High School. That shooting remains under review. 

"If all four (incidents) are deemed justified use of force ... then Trooper Brown is doing what he's been trained to do,

and he's doing his job," Birmingham said. 

Brown will not return to full duty until the legal review of Sunday's shooting is complete, Birmingham said. The

state police director said Monday he was worried about the effect the shootings are having on Brown. 

"Let me be clear that this decision is not an indication of any wrongdoing by Trooper Brown, but merely a change in

the way the state police will now manage our response to officer-involved shootings as it relates to the health and

well-being of our members," Birmingham said Monday. 

Contact Elizabeth Murray at 651-4835 or emurray@freepressmedia.com. Follow her on Twitter at @LizMurrayBFP. 

"Being assigned to the tactical unit elevates your exposure and potential involvement in situations where lethal

force is necessary. That is what they are called to manage, the most critical situations 

Col. Matt Birmingham, commander of the Vermont State Police 

we have." 

CAPTION:  

Christopher Brown 
 
 


 
State Trooper Chris Brown and Richmond Police Officer Richard Greenough pulled over a man on Interstate 89

Sunday afternoon after his ex-wife reported that he was distraught. Motorist Benjamin Gregware got out of his car

and held a 9mm pistol to his head, then walked toward the officers and ignored orders to stop. 

The cops fired 12 rounds and struck Gregware three times, killing him. 

It was the third fatal state police shooting in six months and the fourth shooting inivolving Trooper Brown. Less

than a month earlier, on January 16, Brown was one of nine cops who opened up on Nathan Giffin, 32, on the

grounds of Montpelier High School. Giffin had robbed a credit union nearby with what turned out to be a BB gun. 

Michael Battles had a similar faux firearm when Brown and four fellow troopers shot him in Poultney on September

1, 2017. 

A trooper since 2012, Brown also shot a man in the leg in Fayston during a standoff in 2015. 

State Police Col. Matt Birmingham said Monday that he was contracting with a consultant to review the

department's policies. "Certainly, there is great cause for concern when you have multiple officer-involved

shootings in a short period of time," he said. 

Birmingham said Brown will be on paid leave while authorities investigate the latest case. 

Police said Gregware's ex-wife reported that she was worried about him. He had appeared intoxicated when he

visited his children that day. She said he had recently lost his job. After the visit, he let her know he'd headed to

Walmart to buy ammo. 

A trooper called him, and Gregware, 42, reported that he had a handgun and was driving south on I-89 - and that he

planned to kill himself when he ran out of gas. Before he did, Greenough and Brown pulled him over in Bolton. 

Read Mark Davis' full post at sevendaysvt.com. 
 
 


 
WILLISTON, Vt. (AP) - A distraught man who was pointing a pistol at his own head was shot by police as he walked

toward two officers next to a busy interstate and refused repeated commands to drop the weapon, state police

The man died at a hospital shortly after the Sunday shooting in the breakdown lane of Interstate 89 in Bolton, said

Benjamin Gregware, 42, of Sheldon, did not point his weapon at police before he was shot three times, Birmingham

said. State police Trooper Christopher Brown and an officer from the nearby Richmond Police Department fired 12

said Monday. 

state police Col. Matthew Birmingham. 

shots total at him. 

several years ago, Birmingham said. 

process that could take several months. 

It was the third fatal shooting involving Brown in the last six months. He also was involved in a nonfatal shooting

Brown has been placed on administrative leave for the duration of the investigation into the latest shooting, a

"This decision is not an indication of any wrongdoing by Trooper Brown, but merely a change in the way the state

police will now manage our response to officer involved shootings as it relates to the health and well-being of our

members," Birmingham said during a Monday news conference. 

A representative of the Vermont Troopers Association did not immediately return an email seeking comment on

Brown's behalf. 

be armed with two BB guns. 

The first of the three recent state police shootings involving Brown came Sept. 1 in Poultney when he was among

five troopers who shot and killed a man they were trying to arrest on a domestic assault charge who turned out to

Last month, Brown was one of eight state troopers and a Montpelier city police officer who shot and killed a bank

robbery suspect on the athletic field of Montpelier High School. 

Birmingham said Brown was removed from the state police tactical services unit about two weeks ago but would

The number of police shootings in Vermont has gone up this decade, said Major Glenn Hall, the head of the state

police criminal division. Between 2000 and 2010 there were 22 police shootings. Since 2010 there have been

not say why. 

approximately 25. 

Police could not say for sure why the number had gone up. 

Birmingham said one fatal shooting is too many. 

"These are very challenging, complicated and so as the director I don't want any fatal shootings to happen, but

that's not realistic," he said. "In this world, they happen and we do everything we can to mitigate and de-escalate

these situations." 

Less than an hour before the Bolton shooting, Gregware's ex-wife called police to say her husband was distraught

and had purchased ammunition. A different trooper spoke to Gregware, who said he was going to continue driving

south until he ran out of gas and then "end it." 

When Gregware's car was spotted, Brown and Richmond Cpl. Richard Greenough stopped the vehicle. Gregware

got out of his car and walked toward the officers, ignoring repeated demands that he drop the weapon, a machine

pistol commonly known as a Mac-10. 

Gregware did not fire at officers. The investigation is trying to determine if Gregware's weapon went off as he fell

Greenough has also been placed on leave, said Richmond Police Chief Alan Buck. 

In addition, state police are looking at their procedures and training to see if changes need to be made,

to the ground. 

Birmingham said. 

___ 

This story has been corrected to it was Gregware's ex-wife who called police, not his wife. 

Shootings; Domestic violence; Criminal investigations; Robbery; Deadly force

Credit: By WILSON RING, Associated Press 
 
 


 
WILLISTON - The Vermont State Police say a fatal traffic stop on Interstate 89 in Bolton was prompted by officers'

concerns that the motorist was possibly impaired, armed with a gun and intending to take his own life. 

Benjamin Gregware, 42, of Sheldon, was shot and killed when a Vermont state trooper and a Richmond police

officer opened fire at about 3:50 p.m. Sunday while members of the public passed on the highway. 

The fatal shooting was third involving same Vermont state trooper since September 2017, and his fourth officer-

involved shooting overall, records show. 

At a news conference Monday morning in Williston, Vermont State Police Col. Matthew Birmingham identified the

officers as Trooper Christopher Brown and Richmond Cpl. Richard Greenough. 

Police said the incident began when Gregware's ex-wife, Melissa Gregware, told police she was concerned about

him. She said Gregware was slurring his words and had called to tell her that he purchased ammunition at Walmart

in St. Albans. 

Gregware recently had been laid off from his job, his ex-wife said, was struggling with alcohol addiction, and was

scheduled to visit with their children later that day, according to a statement from Maj. Glenn Hall, commander of

the Vermont State Police criminal division. 

State Trooper Jay Riggen spoke with Gregware on the phone for about 20 minutes while Gregware was driving

south on Interstate 89, Birmingham said. Gregware told the trooper he was going to drive until he ran out of gas

and then "end it," according to the statement. 

Trooper Brown and Officer Greenough stopped Gregware on the side of the southbound lanes near mile marker 69

in Bolton. Gregware was driving a red Honda Accord. 

Birmingham said the officers drew their guns and ordered Gregware out of the car, rather than approaching on

foot, because the stop was high-risk. 

Police said Gregware stepped out of the car and pointed a gun at his own head. Birmingham said Gregware did not

aim the weapon at the officers at any point during the traffic stop but refused to put the firearm down and started

walking toward the officers. 

Maj. Hall said Gregware was struck by at least three shots, out of a total of 12 rounds fired. Brown is believed to

have fired seven times, and Greenough is believed to have fired five times. 

Gregware died after being brought to the University of Vermont Medical Center in Burlington following the

shooting, police said. 

Cars were driving by in the passing lane during the traffic stop, which police said unfolded in less than a minute.

Interstate 89 was closed for the rest of the day until early Monday. 

Gregware's handgun was later identified as a Masterpiece Arms 9 mm tactical pistol, known as a Mac 10. Police

said the handgun had 14 rounds in the magazine and one round in the chamber. Gregware was the only occupant

of the vehicle. 

Hall said police are investigating whether Gregware's gun went off during the incident. 

Birmingham said the traffic stop was recorded by two cruiser cameras and Greenough's body camera. Police said

they expected to release the footage to the public after the criminal review of the shooting is complete. There is no

time line for that legal review. 

Brown has been involved in four shootings since he was hired in January 2012, including last month's fatal

shooting at Montpelier High School, a September fatal shooting in Poultney, and a September 2015 non-fatal

shooting in Fayston. 

Brown was removed from the Vermont State Police tactical services unit about two weeks ago, Birmingham said.

He declined to comment on the reason for the change. 

Birmingham said Brown was working an overtime traffic safety detail Sunday. 

"I worry about Trooper Brown and the impact that this is having on him," Birmingham said. "These individual

incidents are looked at independently of each other, not collectively, because lethal force is a justification point

that occurs in a split second of time." 

shootings. 

Both officers have been placed on administrative leave, according to department policies following police-involved

The Vermont Troopers Association did not respond to a request for comment on Brown's behalf. 

Birmingham said the Vermont State Police, independently of Sunday's shooting, is reviewing its administrative

leave policy. Brown will not return to full duty until the legal review of the shooting is complete. 

"Let me be clear that this decision is not an indication of any wrongdoing by Trooper Brown, but merely a change in

the way the state police will now manage our response to officer-involved shootings as it relates to the health and

well-being of our members," Birmingham said. 

Members of the state police have been involved in three shootings in the past six months. 

"These are very challenging, complicated and tragic events," Birmingham said. "As the director, I don't want any

fatal shootings to happen, but that's not realistic. In this world, they happen. And we do everything we can to

mitigate and de-escalate these situations." 

Birmingham said he is taking a "hard look" at all policies, procedures and non-lethal options to address similar

situations in the future. 

50 years. 

Richmond police Chief Alan Buck said this was the first officer-involved shooting for the town's department in its

The Chittenden County State's Attorney's Office and the Vermont Attorney General's Office will independently

review Sunday's shooting after the Vermont State Police investigation is complete. 

Anyone who witnessed the incident or has more information is asked to call the Vermont State Police Major Crime

Contributing: The Associated Press. Contact April McCullum at 802-660-1863 or amccullum@freepressmedia.com.

Unit at 878-7111. 

Follow her on Twitter at @April_McCullum. 

One trooper, four shootings 

Since he was hired by the Vermont State Police six years ago, Trooper Christopher Brown has been involved in four

shootings, three of them fatal. Brown most recently was one of two officers who fired on Benjamin Gregware in a

Two of the shootings were ruled to be justified, and two remain under investigation. 

"If they are all justified, then Trooper Brown did his job," said Col. Matthew Birmingham, director of the Vermont

traffic stop on Interstate 89. 

State Police. 

A look at the shootings: 

Sept. 11, 2015: Trooper Brown shot Robert Smallidge, 48, while responding to a residence in Fayston. Smallidge

was wounded in the leg. The Vermont attorney general and Washington County state's attorney later concluded

the shooting was justified. 

shot Michael Battles, 32, in Poultney. 

Sept. 1, 2017: Five members of the Vermont State Police tactical services unit, including Trooper Brown, fatally

The Vermont attorney general and Rutland County state's attorney concluded the shooting was justified. 

Jan. 16, 2018: A total of nine police officers, including Trooper Brown, fatally shot Nathan Giffin, 32, outside

Montpelier High School. Giffin was the suspect in a credit union robbery nearby and was armed with a BB gun. 

Eight of the officers were from the Vermont State Police. One Montpelier police officer also fired. The use of force

Feb. 11, 2018: Trooper Brown and Richmond police officer Cpl. Rick Greenough fatally shot Benjamin Gregware, 42,

Col. Matthew Birmingham of the Vermont State Police discusses Sunday's fatal shooting of Benjamin Gregware

by police remains under investigation. 

during a traffic stop on Interstate 89 in Bolton. 

CAPTION:  

during a news conferenceon Monday. 

GLENN RUSSELL/FREE PRESS 
 
 


 
Two police officers were justified in shooting a suicidal man in February along Interstate 89 in Richmond,

according to the Vermont Attorney General's Office and the Chittenden County state's attorney. 

Attorney General T.J. Donovan announced last Friday that Vermont State Police Trooper Christopher Brown and

Richmond Police Officer Richard Greenough will not face charges for fatally shooting 42-year-old Benjamin

Gregware of Sheldon. 

On the afternoon of February 11, Gregware, who had been laid off from his job and lost custody of his children,

called his ex-wife and threatened to commit suicide. She notified police, who called Gregware. He sounded "slurred

and confused but lucid regarding his intention to 'end it,'" according to a description of the incident by Bram

Kranichfeld, criminal division chief for the Vermont Attorney General's Office. 

Brown pulled an armed Gregware over in Richmond; Greenough arrived on scene shortly after. Brown ordered

Gregware out of the vehicle and commanded him more than 10 times to drop his gun, according to Kranichfeld.

Gregware pointed what the Attorney General's Office referred to as a "MAC-10-style assault pistol" at his own head

and walked toward the officers. Gregware, who had no criminal record, never pointed the gun at the officers. 

Brown, who was standing about 25 feet away, fired seven shots from a semiautomatic rifle; Greenough fired five

shots from a .40-caliber pistol. Four bullets struck Gregware, in the head, arms and torso, according to Kranichfeld. 

An ambulance arrived about 15 minutes after the shooting and took Gregware to the University of Vermont

Medical Center, where he died about an hour later. 

The pistol Gregware held was loaded with 15 live rounds, according to Kranichfeld. 

Company / organization:

Name: University of Vermont Medical Center; NAICS: 622110; Name: State Police-

KATIE JICKLING 
 
 


 
Benjamin P. Gregware, 42, died Sunday from gunshots to the head and torso fired by police, the Vermont Office of

State and Richmond police shot Gregware, who investigators say was armed and suicidal, during a traffic stop at

The victim, a resident of St. Albans, was pronounced dead about an hour later at University of Vermont Medical

the Chief Medical Examiner reported Thursday. 

3:51 p.m. along Interstate 89 near Bolton. 

Center, according to the report. 

Gregware was born in Plattsburgh, New York; and was divorced at the time of his death, the document added. 

Gregware struggled with alcohol addiction and had recently been laid off from his job as a laborer at S.D. Ireland,

according to Vermont State Police. He had been scheduled to visit with his children later in the day Sunday. 

Vermont State Police Trooper Trooper Chris Brown and Richmond Police Cpl. Rick Greenough were identified by

investigators as the officers who fired 12 rounds at Gregware. 

Both men were placed on administrative leave, as is standard practice after officer-involved shootings. 

Brown had previously been involved in three suspect shootings, two of which investigators later determined were

justified. 

50 years. 

Richmond police Chief Alan Buck said this was the first officer-involved shooting for the town's department in its

Gregware's handgun was identified as a Masterpiece Arms 9 mm tactical pistol, known as a Mac 10. Police said

the handgun had 14 rounds in the magazine and one round in the chamber. 

Gregware did not aim the weapon at the officers at any point during the traffic stop but refused to put the firearm

down, and started walking toward the officers, Vermont State Police Col. Matthew Birmingham said Monday. 

Birmingham added that he would be taking a "hard look" at all policies, procedures and non-lethal options to

Col. Matthew Birmingham of the Vermont State Police discusses Sunday's fatal shooting of Benjamin Gregware in

Bolton during a news conference in Williston on Monday. Gregware was shot by a Vermont state trooper and a

address similar situations in the future. 

CAPTION:  

Richmond police officer after a car stop on I-89. 

GLENN RUSSELL/FREE PRESS 
 
 


Fatal police shooting in western New York - Associated Press State
Wire: New York (NY) - April 12, 2018
April 12, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New York (NY)

PEMBROKE, N.Y. (AP) — Authorities say western New York deputies have fatally shot a man who
fired a gun at them in a restaurant parking lot.

T he shooting happened round 11 p.m. Wednesday in the town of Pembroke. T he Democrat &
Chronicle says police identified the man as 61-year-old Keith Kent

Keith Kent , of Albion.

Genesee County Undersheriff Greg Walker says law enforcement had responded to a report of a
man causing a disturbance and shots fired inside at the restaurant.

Deputies found Kent in the parking lot and authorities say he fired at least one shot at them.
Deputies returned fire after ordering him to drop the weapon.

T here were about seven people inside the restaurant at the time. None were hurt.

___

Information from: Rochester Democrat and Chronicle, http://www.democratandchronicle.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Young identified as Kent shooter - SHERIFF: - Daily News, The (Batavia,
NY) - April 14, 2018 - page A1
April 14, 2018 | Daily News, The (Batavia, NY) | JIM KRENCIK jkrencik@batavianews.com | Page A1

Genesee County Sheriff William A. Sheron, Jr. identified Deputy Ryan W. Young as the officer who
fatally shot Keith Kent

Keith Kent  outside of the Indian Falls Log Cabin Restaurant on Wednesday.

Young, a six-year law enforcement officer, joined the Sheriff's Office in 2016. He carried out the
duties, Sheron said in a short news release Friday.

"Law enforcement officers go to work every day knowing that they may be required to sacrifice
their own lives, or take the life of another human being, in order to fulfill their obligation of
protecting the citizens of our communities," Sheron said. "Deputy Young's actions on Wednesday
night did just that."

Sheron said the Sheriff's Office will have no further comment on the incident.

T he State Police are leading the investigation into the shooting, which followed reports of a man
inside the Indian Falls restaurant threatening patrons and firing a weapon.

According to the Sheriff's Office, Young and other officers found Kent holding a gun in the
restaurant's parking lot, and commanded him to drop the weapon.

"When they yelled the commands to him, he turned toward one of our officers and pointed the gun
at our officer. Our officer did take the shot and the suspect was killed," Undersheriff Greg Walker
told a news conference that night.

Young is part of a generation shift at the Sheriff's Office, which saw nine retirements in 2015 and
2016. He arrived at Park Road after working as a part-time officer with police departments in Eden,
Attica, Le Roy and Corfu, and served as a seasonal deputy before his appointment to the road
patrol.

Officers from the Sheriff's Office, Batavia and Le Roy police departments and state police have
spent the last two weeks training for active shooter situations. Young has faced one already.

During his time in Le Roy, the then-Le Roy officer was a first responder to the December 2015
Selden Road house fire set by Kyle G. Johnson after Johnson fatally shot a neighbor.

Johnson, who was later found not guilty by reason of insanity, fired at both Young and firefighter
T imothy Hodge as they arrived, starting a three-hour stand-off that led to Johnson's arrest.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Johnson Newspaper Corporation

 
Grand jury clears deputy in Log Cabin shooting - Daily News, The
(Batavia, NY) - May 11, 2018 - page A1
May 11, 2018 | Daily News, The (Batavia, NY) | SCOTT DESMIT sdesmit@batavianews.com | Page A1

A grand jury has ruled that the shooting death of an Albion man by a Genesee County sheriff's
deputy at the Log Cabin Restaurant in April was justified.

"T he grand jury found the actions were justified and there is no cause for criminal charges in this
matter," District Attorney Lawrence Friedman said.

T he case was presented to a Genesee County grand jury Wednesday.

T he shooting happened April 11 at the Log Cabin in Indian Falls.

Keith Alan Kent
Keith Alan Kent , 61, was shot once in the neck and grazed in the back after Deputy Ryan Young
fired 15 rounds at him with an AR-15 rifle.

Sheriff William Sheron turned the case over to state police, who "conducted a very thorough
investigation," Friedman said.

"T hey interviewed everyone who was at the Log Cabin that night," Friedman said. "T hey did a great
deal of work on that case and we are very grateful to them."

T he investigation revealed what can be described as a night of terror.

Kent was at the bar talking to a woman, who "was not receptive to what he was saying," First
Assistant District Attorney Melissa Cianfrini said.

"He was asked to leave and was removed under protest," she said.

Employees and patrons watched Kent as he walked across the parking lot to his pickup truck, then
turning and firing two shots in the air from a handgun.

At the same time, Deputy Young was en route to the restaurant for what initially was a report of
an unruly patron.

As he was driving more reports came in and told of a situation "that was quickly escalating,"
including that shots had been fired.

Kent at one point went back into the restaurant and made threats, Cianfrini said, as employees and
patrons were huddled in the basement. Some had armed themselves, she said.

Kent fired one more shot, but it was unclear where. When Young and other patrols arrived, Kent

was outside and Young gave him "multiple directives" to drop his weapon.

Instead, Kent aimed the handgun at Young, who fired 15 rounds at Kent.

T he other deputies were not in a position to fire as they were unclear where patrons and
employees were, Cianfrini said.

Kent was pronounced dead at the scene.

Deputies did have body camera footage of the shooting, but the dark parking lot made it difficult
to actually see what happened, Cianfrini said. Shots and the deputy's commands could be heard on
the footage.

Kent, who owned Jordan River Logging in Barre, had sent T he Daily News a five-page letter
detailing events going back nearly 20 years ago involving his logging company and his arrest for
bilking a woman out of money. T hose charges were eventually dropped but Kent in recent years
has repeatedly targeted the Orleans County District Attorney's Office seeking retribution. His latest
letter said the situation had driven him "to the brink of complete insanity over this and it will end
soon."

Friedman said nothing Kent said at the scene indicated he wanted to commit "suicide by cop."

Kent had been drinking that night but toxicology tests have yet to be completed.

Young has returned to work.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Johnson Newspaper Corporation

 
Undersheriff says deputy doing well under the - Daily News, The
(Batavia, NY) - April 17, 2018 - page A5
April 17, 2018 | Daily News, The (Batavia, NY) | BRIAN QUINN bquinn@batavianews.com | Page A5

A sheriff's deputy who fatally shot an armed suspect the night of April 11 in the parking lot of a
Pembroke restaurant is doing relatively well, considering the circumstances of the incident,
Undersheriff Greg Walker said Monday afternoon.

T hat's what Walker told the County Public Services Committee during its meeting. T he committee
thanked the Sheriff's Office for its response and asked about Deputy Ryan Young.

On the night of the incident, according to the Sheriff's Office, Young and other officers found
Keith Kent
Keith Kent  holding a gun in the Indian Falls Log Cabin restaurant's parking lot after responding to
a call and commanded him to drop the weapon.

"When they yelled the commands to him, he turned toward one of our officers and pointed the gun
at our officer. Our officer did take the shot and the suspect was killed," Walker told a news
conference that night. No one else was injured in the incident.

After he left Monday's committee meeting, Walker said the New York State Police investigation
continues.

"T hey're still working on it. They're getting down to the tail end of it, so I would imagine they'll have
theirs completed relatively soon," he said. "T hey'll probably talk to the DA (district attorney) and
then go from there.

"Walker said the Sheriff's Office is in touch with Young on a daily basis and that the deputy is aware
of the amount of support he has.

"Not just us - everybody's been really good about it," he said, Asked when Young is scheduled to
return to duty, Walker said, "We're still up in the air with that one. Yeah, we're working on it. We're
basically looking for him to say when he thinks he's ready."

Walker said Young has been on paid administrative leave and will be until further notice.

"Considering the circumstances, he is (doing well). It's going to take some time. T hat's one of
those things, you wonder, 'What's going to happen six months from now?"

Copyrig ht, 2018, Johnson Newspaper Corporation

 
BREAKING: Grand Jury finds Log Cabin shooting - Batavian, The (NY) -
May 10, 2018
May 10, 2018 | Batavian, The (NY) | Billie Owens

Keith Kent  in the parking lot of the Indian
T he shooting by a deputy that resulted in the death of Keith Kent
Falls Log Cabin Restaurant the night of April 11 was deemed justified, the District Attorney's Office
announced at a press conference this afternoon.

T he Genesee County Grand Jury returned "No Bill" for Sheriff's Deputy Ryan W. Young after a
thorough investigation by State Police and a complete review of the evidence by the jury, District
Attorney Lawrence Friedman said.

Follow Up: All evidence pointed to justified shooting at Log Cabin, DA says after Grand Jury clears
deputy

RecommendT weetPin it

Copyrig ht 2018 The Batavian. All Rights Reserved.

 
All evidence pointed to justified shooting at Log - Batavian, The (NY) -
May 10, 2018
May 10, 2018 | Batavian, The (NY) | Howard B. Owens

By the time Deputy Ryan Young arrived at the Log Cabin Restaurant in Indian Falls at 11 p.m. on
April 11, he knew a customer had caused a disturbance in the restaurant and that the customer
had fired at least two shots from a firearm.

As Young and other deputies arrived in the parking lot that Wednesday night, they heard another
shot being fired.

Keith Kent
Keith Kent , a 61-year-old logging company owner from Albion, spotted by deputies in the parking
lot carrying a handgun, did not respond to verbal commands to drop his weapon.

At a press conference today about the shooting, First Assistant District Attorney Melissa Cianfrini
said, "He began to advance in the direction of Deputy Young, raising and ultimately pointing his
revolver at Deputy Young. Deputy Young fired several rounds and Mr. Kent was shot."

Kent was hit in his neck and grazed by a bullet across his back. He was pronounced dead at the
scene.

Following a month-long investigation by State Police -- that District Attorney Lawrence Friedman
characterized as "thorough" -- a Grand Jury reviewed the evidence and returned what is known as a
"no bill," which means the Grand Jury found no reason to charge Young with a crime.

Friedman said the Grand Jury ruled the shooting was justified.

While Friedman and Cianfrini are prohibited by law from discussing anything that happened during
the Grand Jury hearing, they are free to discuss what the State Police investigation uncovered.

T he narrative of events starts with Kent trying to talk with a woman at the bar of the Log Cabin.

"He was talking with the woman at the bar and she was not receptive, I guess you might say, to
what he was saying to her," Friedman said. "He was asked to leave her alone and ultimately was
asked to leave the bar and was removed from the bar under protest."

After he went outside, either patrons or employees or both continued to observe him as he walked
to his truck.

By this time, a person at the Log Cabin had already called 9-1-1 and remained on the phone with an
emergency dispatcher providing updates as "the situation quickly escalated," as Cianfrini put it.

Investigators were not able to determine if Kent retrieved a revolver from the truck or if he already

had it on him when he left the bar. He was a valid permit holder for the revolver, Cianfrini said.

After reaching his truck, he started to walk back to the bar and fired two shots into the air.

"Patrons at the restaurant and employees went down into a basement and began to arm
themselves with materials in the basement while hiding," Cianfrini said. "Mr. Kent did re-enter the
restaurant and threats were made."

T here is no evidence that Kent fired his revolver while inside the restaurant.

He walked back outside.

"He was given multiple directives by sheriff's deputies to drop his weapon," Cianfrini said. "He did
not comply with those directives."

Young was armed with his duty AR-15. As Kent pointed his revolver at Young -- who was 50 to 80
feet away from Kent -- the deputy fired 15 shots, which did not empty his magazine, Cianfrini said.

No other deputies fired their weapons during the incident.

"I believe that the reason why other deputies may not have discharged their firearms was because
of the concern that there may have been patrons in the restaurant area," Cianfrini said. "T hey
weren't fully aware where the patrons or employees in the restaurant were, and so under their
standing orders, they were not in a position where they could safely discharge their firearms."

T he narrative of events was established by witness statements, body camera recordings, 9-1-1
recordings, and the available forensic evidence.

"What I can tell you about the body-worn camera footage is that this incident took place during the
night," Cianfrini said. "It was dark. T here was limited lighting. T here were no body-worn camera
recordings that directly caught the incident."

Friedman said, however, the recordings were useful to the investigation, especially the audio
portions of the recordings.

Asked if Kent made any statements before being shot, Friedman said he doesn't believe he did.

Friedman expressed confidence that the shooting was justified.

"I would say, in addition, that throughout this very thorough investigation, interviewing of everyone
who was there, there was never the slightest hint that would indicate that this was anything other
than justified."

Previously:

* BREAKING: Grand Jury finds Log Cabin shooting death justified

* UPDAT E: Deputy shoots and kills armed suspect at Log Cabin Restaurant

* Man shot and killed after pointing handgun at deputy outside Log Cabin Restaurant

* Man shot by deputy at Log Cabin was looking for a fight according to early reports from the
scene

* Deputy Ryan Young is identified as officer involved in Wednesday night's shooting at Log Cabin
Restaurant

* BPD officer who shot robber in 1977 says 'don't let others second guess you'

* Once all the evidence is in, DA will face decision on whether to have Log Cabin shooting case
reviewed by grand jury

RecommendT weetPin it

Copyrig ht 2018 The Batavian. All Rights Reserved.

 
Man shot at Indian Falls had history of feeling - Batavian, The (NY) -
April 12, 2018
April 12, 2018 | Batavian, The (NY) | Howard B. Owens

With police sharing few details, it's still not clear what lead to a deadly confrontation between a 61-
year-old Albion man and a Sheriff's deputy outside of the Log Cabin Restaurant last night.

Keith Kent  may have gotten into some type of argument after stopping at
According to sources, Keith Kent
the restaurant for dinner while on his way home. T he argument may have become physical and he
may have been hit.

It's unclear what happened next but a source said employees ushered themselves and customers
into the basement once the disturbance started.

According to Undersheriff Gregory Walker, Kent was confronted by officers outside the restaurant
at about 11 p.m. after receiving reports of shots fired. Walker said when officers first arrived on
scene Kent fired a shot. It's unknown what if anything he was aiming at. Officers, according to
Walker, shouted commands at Kent but he did not obey them. When he turned toward a deputy
and appeared to point his handgun at the deputy, the deputy fired at least one round that struck
Kent and killed him.

Kent owned a logging business in Albion, Jordan River Logging, on Route 31A. According to news
reports going back to the early 2000s, Kent was involved in disputes related to his business.

Orleans Hub reported today that Kent had complained in the past about how authorities handled
his cases, including one where he was charged with felonies but a grand jury did not indictment him
following a hearing.

He was accused of taking far more trees from a Barre woman In an agreement, Kent was to take
40 trees but was accused of taking close to 200.

Kent, 61, complained to friends and neighbors, and in letters sent to newspapers, that he was
wrongly prosecuted with the charges hurting his reputation and business.

Kent also said his business was destroyed by the "Rutherford-Cain gang" from Niagara County,
who were rival loggers. Kent in an email to the Orleans Hub on June 29, 2017, saying the two from
Niagara County caused him "eight years of hell on earth, including vandalisms, thefts, arson and
attempts on my life."

According to a 2007 article in the Buffalo News, David Cain, then 38, was convicted in federal court
of 17 felony charges, including racketeering, racketeering conspiracy, three extortions, two mail
frauds, five arsons, three tamperings with witnesses, conspiracy to tamper with witnesses and
evidence tampering.

His brother, Christopher, and cousin, James Soha, were convicted of five felonies each, including
racketeering.

David Cain was eventually sentenced to 55 years in federal prison.

In 2011, Kent sent a letter to several publications, including the Medina Journal-Register, accusing
Orleans County District Attorney Joseph Cardone of using incidents stemming from the Cain
criminal activity to "create" a crime against him, even though Kent has assisted in the prosecution
of Cain.

Although the Grand Jury soundly rejected issuing an indictment for "timber theft," through highly
suspect means, a lesser indictment was obtained against me. Judge Punch swiftly ruled to dismiss
all charges, stating, "... the evidence before the Grand Jury was legally insufficient."

He wrote:

Adding,

What was your true motive, Cardone, had I not just handed you the key witnesses that gave you
no alternative but to indict David Cain Jr., who was later sent to federal prison for 55 years? I had
essentially rid Western New York of the worst gang of criminals in the last century after enduring a
living hell at their hands. Until I brought you the witnesses and gave you no choice, I received no
help at all from you. Was my arrest your attempt to destroy my name and all I've worked for
because I embarrassed you into doing your job?

Kent sued Cardone and lost, with a court ruling that Cardone had "absolute immunity."

For Kent, the dispute seems to have remained unresolved, according to Orleans Hub:

Kent in his email to the Orleans Hub said he was terrorized for eight years while law enforcement
did nothing to protect him or his family. He said he was treated "shamefully" by District Attorney
Joe Cardone, the U.S. Attorney's Office and the U.S. Marshals.

T he Batavian's news partner 13WHAM was able to conduct a short phone interview with Keith
Keith
Kent
Kent 's older brother, Gary, who described Keith as a family man who loved his children. He had a
wife, two adult children, and four grandchildren.

Previously:

* Man shot and killed after pointing handgun at deputy outside Log Cabin Restaurant

* Man shot by deputy at Log Cabin was looking for a fight according to early reports from the
scene

RecommendT weetPin it

Copyrig ht 2018 The Batavian. All Rights Reserved.

 
Kent killed in Pembroke by deputy after shots - Daily News, The
(Batavia, NY) - April 13, 2018 - page A1
April 13, 2018 | Daily News, The (Batavia, NY) | SCOTT DESMIT sdesmit@batavianews.com | Page A1

An Albion man has been identified as the person shot and killed by a Genesee County sheriff's
deputies late Wednesday night, a man who had been in recent contact with T he Daily News,
making vague threats of violence in rambling letters.

Keith Alan Kent
Keith Alan Kent , 61, was shot after he pointed a handgun at a deputy who arrived at the Indian
Falls Log Cabin Restaurant for a report of a man threatening patrons and firing shots both inside
and outside the restaurant.

Kent, brother of former Orleans County Legislator Gary Kent, was pronounced dead at the scene
of the shooting, which happened about 11 p.m.

Investigators said Kent had been acting violent, making threats and wanting to fight people before
police arrived.

Investigators also said Kent asked "Where are the police?" minutes before a deputy arrived.

Undersheriff Gregory Walker said Kent was shot to death after he pointed a handgun at the deputy
despite several commands to drop the gun.

Walker said the deputy's body camera was activated and added "we do have body cam footage
that will be reviewed."

Deputies were called to the restaurant on Gilmore Road just before 11 p.m. for a report that a man
was threatening people. As a deputy was en route, more reports came in that the man was firing
shots inside and outside the restaurant, Walker said.

T he deputy who shot Kent was the first on the scene.

Walker said he did not want to divulge whether any other officers were at the scene at the time of
the shooting.

State police have taken over the investigation at the Sheriff's Department's request, Walker said.

State police have not released any other details.

Walker said the deputy will be taking time off and then be assigned administrative duties once he
returns.

T he department has never had to deal with such a situation, at least not in recent memory.

"T he deputy will be debriefed and we have counselors available," Walker said.

T he department also has an employee assistance program.

"T his is the first time for our department to have to deal with something like this," Walker said.

Nine people were inside the restaurant at the time of the shooting.

Kent, who, with his family, owns Jordan River Logging in Barre, sent T he Daily News a five-page
letter (See related story) dated March 30, a rambling letter detailing events going back nearly 20
years ago involving his logging company and subsequent arrest for bilking a woman out of money.

At one point in the letter Kent says "I have been driven to the brink of COMPLET E INSANIT Y over
this and it will end soon."

Copyrig ht, 2018, Johnson Newspaper Corporation

 

Officials ID officer, victim in officer-involved - Associated Press State
Wire: Colorado (CO) - October 13, 2018
October 13, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Colorado (CO)

LOVELAND, Colo. (AP) — Officials in north-central Colorado have released the names of a sheriff's
deputy and an armed man who was killed in an officer-involved shooting during a pursuit.

Larimer County officials say Deputy Matthew Bordewick shot 25-year-old Travis N . Craven
Greeley on Monday afternoon. Craven died Tuesday afternoon.

T ravis N . Craven of

Officials say Craven was involved in a fight with a male relative just before noon Monday in the Red
Feather Lakes area. Craven left the scene with a handgun and officers pursued him. T hey ran
Craven's car off the road near Wellington and said he got out of the car holding a handgun.
Bordewick shot him.

Bordewick is on paid administrative leave while the shooting is investigated.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Prosecutor clears Colorado deputy in deadly - Associated Press State
Wire: Colorado (CO) - November 17, 2018
November 17, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Colorado (CO)

FORT  COLLINS, Colo. (AP) — Prosecutors have cleared a sheriff's deputy of any criminal
wrongdoing in the deadly shooting that followed a pursuit in north-central Colorado.

T he Fort Collins Coloradoan reports Larimer County District Attorney Cliff Riedel says in letter
Friday that deputy Matthew Bordewick had "every reason to believe" that 25-year-old T ravis
T ravis
Craven was about to shoot him.
Craven

According to the letter, Craven fled from deputies while armed and after assaulting his father in the
Red Feather Lakes area early last month.

Craven's vehicle later spun out and landed in a field.

Riedel says Bordewick repeatedly demanded for Craven to drop the gun, but he had his finger on
the trigger as he turned toward the deputy.

A toxicology report showed Craven had methamphetamine in his system.

___

Information from: Fort Collins Coloradoan, http://www.coloradoan.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
The Larimer County district attorney on Friday cleared Sheriff's Office Deputy Matthew Bordewick of criminal

wrongdoing in the shooting death of 25-year-old Travis Craven. 

The letter from District Attorney Cliff Riedel stated that Craven's actions on Oct. 8 placed Bordewick and Craven's

father in "reasonable fear for their lives," and "countless members of the public at risk as he recklessly attempted

Craven reportedly told his parents to come visit from Greeley on Oct. 6. His mother left on Oct. 7, but his father

to elude police." 

stayed behind. 

On the morning of Oct. 8, Craven's dad was on the phone with his wife when Craven reportedly entered the room

and demanded his father reveal his "real name." Riedel said Craven's family told police that he'd become paranoid

and delusional, believed the government was after him, and he thought his father was an undercover officer. 

Craven then began punching his dad in the face and then grabbed a .410 shotgun and hit him in the face with the

butt of the gun, according to Riedel. 

Craven then allegedly threw his dad on the bed and choked him. When his dad landed on the ground, Riedel's letter

says Craven hit his father in his back near his spine, then took a handgun and put it to his dad's head, spit in his

face, kicked him and threatened to kill him. 

Craven's father told investigators his son then told him he was "lucky this time," before he grabbed his dad's dog

and left. 

while carrying a handgun. 

When he spoke with 911 dispatchers, Craven's father told them Craven had left the residence in a white Subaru

After a deputy arrived at the residence and spoke to Craven's father, Craven reportedly returned and parked in the

driveway. Deputy Nathan Rankin walked out of the house with a handgun drawn and gave Craven commands, but

he did not cooperate, according to Riedel. Craven then reportedly released the dog and drove off. 

Craven's father told investigators that his son said he would "shoot it out" with police and force them to shoot him. 

A pursuit began after another deputy saw Craven's white Subaru, and Bordewick joined the pursuit along Red

Feather Lakes Road. The pursuit reached speeds topping 100 mph. As Craven approached Livermore Elementary

School, he waved his arms outside his window. Knowing that Craven was armed and fearing he may try to shoot at

them, deputies slowed down to put some distance between themselves and the suspect, Riedel said. 

As Craven drove south on U.S. Highway 287, he continued to evade deputies. A lieutenant who was monitoring the

pursuit attempted to deploy spike strips near Owl Canyon Road and County Road 7, but Craven avoided the spike

strips and continued eastbound toward Interstate 25. 

Craven reportedly turned southbound on the frontage road on the east side of I-25 and eastbound on County Road

66. Bordewick employed a PIT maneuver in which a police car contacts the back of a suspect's car, spinning the

car and ending the pursuit. 

trigger of his handgun. 

Craven's vehicle spun, went down an embankment and landed in a field, about 25 yards from County Road 66. 

Both Bordewick and Craven got out of their vehicles with guns drawn. Craven reportedly had his finger on the

Riedel said Bordewick repeatedly demanded Craven drop the gun, but Craven reportedly turned toward the deputy

and squared up with his finger on the trigger. 

"Measurements from the scene document that when Travis squared up on Deputy Bordewick, he was

approximately 22 yards from Deputy Bordewick," Riedel wrote. "With every reason to believe that Travis was about

to shoot him, Deputy Bordewick rapidly fired what he believed to be 4-5 rounds." 

The shooting occurred about 10 seconds after the PIT maneuver. 

Another deputy who arrived after Bordewick said he saw Craven "fixated" on Bordewick while holding his gun. 

Deputies and a Colorado State Patrol trooper rendered aid to Craven until emergency personnel arrived. Craven

later died at Medical Center of the Rockies in Loveland. 

Craven died of three gunshot wounds, according to the Larimer County Coroner's Office, with the fatal shot above

his left eye, and others to his shoulder and neck. 

A toxicology report revealed that he had methamphetamine in his system. 

According to Riedel's letter, Craven's parents said the man had substance abuse issues with methamphetamine

and was living in a family home in Red Feather Lakes. 

"Based on the totality of the evidence, I find that Mr. Travis Craven committed the only criminal offenses during

this incident," wrote Riedel. "Had he survived, sufficient evidence exists to have charged Mr. Craven with multiple

felony offenses; including attempted first-degree murder of a peace officer against Deputy Bordewick, second-

degree assault and menacing with a deadly weapon against his father, and vehicular eluding." 

This is the first police shooting in Larimer County in 2018, according to the Loveland Police Department. There

were five police shootings in 2017, and there were three in both 2015 and 2016, according to Coloradoan records. 

Reporter Saja Hindi covers public safety, courts and accountability. Follow her on Twitter @BySajaHindi or email

Authorities investigate after a chase involving Larimer County Sheriff's Office deputies ended in a police shooting. 

Methamphetamines; Shootings; Criminal investigations; Deadly force

Colorado United States--US

Company / organization:

Name: State Patrol-Colorado; NAICS: 922120; Name: Twitter Inc; NAICS: 519130

Publication title:

Fort Collins Coloradoan; Fort Collins, Colo.

her at shindi@coloradoan.com. 

Sady Swanson/The Coloradoan 

CREDIT: Saja Hindi 
 
 

DA: Larimer deputy justified in fatal October - Daily Reporter-Herald,
The (Loveland, CO) - November 16, 2018
November 16, 2018 | Daily Reporter-Herald, The (Loveland, CO) | By Hans Peter Loveland Reporter-Herald

T he lethal force used by Larimer County Sheriff's Deputy Matthew Bordewick to shoot and kill 25-
year-old Travis Craven
Office.

T ravis Craven has been deemed justified by the Larimer County District Attorney's

A Friday opinion letter from Cliff Riedel stated that Bordewick's decision to shoot Craven Oct. 8 was
based on his belief that Craven intended to shoot at deputies with a deadly weapon, in this case, a
pistol.

A Critical Incident Response Team investigation headed by the Loveland Police Department
revealed that after a high-speed pursuit and a PIT  maneuver used to run Craven off the road,
Bordewick exited his vehicle and demanded that Craven drop his pistol. Craven refused after
multiple commands, and "squared up" to point his gun at Bordewick, who then fired four to five
rounds.

T hree of those rounds connected with Craven; a shot above his left eye is believed to have been
the fatal round.

Riedel said three citizen witnesses saw the shooting, and all three testified that Craven had
attempted to shoot at Bordewick before being shot.

Further investigation revealed that Craven — a Greeley resident — had used methamphetamine.
His parents told authorities that in the days before his death, Craven had visited one of their
properties in Red Feather Lakes and left the place "in disarray," leaving evidence of meth use.

His parents also said Craven had been "strung out" on meth for some time and often had
delusions about his father being an undercover law enforcement officer.

On Oct. 8, Craven had an altercation with his father at the Red Feather Lakes apartment and at one
point, struck his father in the face with the butt of a shotgun, according to Riedel's letter. He also
dealt several blows to his father, choked him, and held a pistol to his head, threatening to kill him.
Craven left his father there and told him he was going to kill the family dog, Sassy, before leaving in
his white Subaru.

Craven's father got in contact with Larimer County dispatch, and Sheriff's Deputy Nathan Rankin
arrived on scene to follow up on the incident.

While Rankin was there, Craven returned in the white Subaru. Rankin drew his gun and ordered
Craven to cooperate, but instead Craven released Sassy, ran to his vehicle and sped off; Rankin
alerted dispatch of the incident and the chase soon followed; Bordewick performed his PIT

maneuver at 12:39 p.m., and 10 seconds later — according to dispatch records — shot Craven.

Craven's father told Rankin that Craven intended to "shoot it out" with law enforcement and force
someone to shoot him.

Riedel's letter concluded that if Craven had survived the incident, he would've faced charges of
first-degree attempted murder of a peace officer, second-degree assault, menacing with a deadly
weapon and vehicular eluding. He added that both Craven's father and Bordewick had undergone
reasonable fear for their lives as the result of Craven's actions that day.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Daily Reporter-Herald, The (Loveland, CO), All Rights Reserved.

 



 
A fatal officer-involved shooting was reported in Hardwick on Tuesday night. This was the second trooper-related

fatal shooting in the small rural Warren County township in a span of six days. 

The Attorney General's Shooting Response Team is investigating both. 

Stephen Cogelia, 32, was fatally shot by a State Trooper at his family home, according to a report from the attorney

general's office. Cogelia, according to the report, was armed with a hunting knife and had threatened family

members. 

Six days earlier, a New York man led troopers on a chase from the Delaware Water Gap to a secluded area of the

sparsely populated North Jersey township, where he died after an exchange of gunfire. Attorney general's office

spokesman Peter Aseltine said the office has "no information to suggest that these shootings are connected in

any way." He declined to give any information on the troopers involved. 

New Jersey State Police referred all questions to the attorney general. 

State troopers patrol the township with a population 1,696 as of the 2010 U.S. Census. It includes portions of

Worthington State Forest and does not have its own police force. 

The second shooting occurred shortly after 9 p.m. Tuesday at a home on Sunset Lake Road. According to the

preliminary attorney general's office investigation, Cogelia threatened to kill his father who had asked him to leave

the home. He also threatened to kill others in the home, according to reports. 

Cogelia's father reported the threats in person to the state police station in Hope and asked for a temporary

restraining order. While at the station, a relative called the father to report Cogelia had returned to the home and

was making additional threats. 

violence against them. 

Five troopers responded, and according to the attorney general's office, when they entered, Cogelia threatened

Troopers encountered Cegelia, who was armed with a knife, in a second floor bedroom, reports show. One trooper

The attorney general's Independent Prosecutor Directive establishes strict procedures for conducting all deadly-

fired his service weapon, struck and killed Cogelia, according to the report. 

Cogelia was pronounced dead at the scene. No troopers were injured. 

Aseltine said no additional information would be released at this time. 

force investigations. Both incidents are currently under investigation. 
 
 

State to probe New Jersey trooper fatal shooting - Associated Press
State Wire: New Jersey (NJ) - June 13, 2018
June 13, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New Jersey (NJ)

HARDWICK, N.J. (AP) — State authorities in New Jersey are investigating a shooting death by a
state trooper of a man said to have been armed with a hunting knife.

T he state attorney general's office says troopers received a report Tuesday night of threats
against relatives by 32-year-old Stephen Cog elia
Stephen Cogelia  at a Hardwick home. Officials said responding
troopers heard Cogelia threatening them as they entered, and they found him with the knife in a
second-floor bedroom. Police said one trooper fired, killing Cogelia.

On Friday, state police seeking a man after a harassment complaint found his truck in Hardwick.
Officials said approaching troopers heard a gunshot within the vehicle, and a trooper fired multiple
rounds into the vehicle. Forty-seven-year-old T odd Gregory of Coram, New York was found dead.
T wo rifles were recovered."

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal issued the following news release: 

The Attorney General's Shooting Response Team is conducting an investigation into the circumstances of an

officer-involved shooting late last night in Hardwick Township (Warren County), N.J., involving the New Jersey

State Police. The subject, who was armed with a hunting knife, was fatally shot by a state trooper. 

The shooting occurred shortly after 9 p.m. at a home on Sunset Lake Road in Hardwick. According to the

preliminary investigation, the subject, Stephen Cogelia, 32, of Hardwick, had been asked by his father to leave the

residence and had made threats that he would kill his father and other occupants of the home. The father went to

State Police at Hope Station to report the threats and obtain a temporary restraining order (TRO) against the son.

While the father was still at the State Police barracks, a relative called to report that Stephen Cogelia had returned

to the home and was making additional threats. 

Five troopers responded to the home to investigate the threats. When the troopers entered the home, they heard

Stephen Cogelia threatening violence against them. Troopers went to the second floor of the home and opened the

door of a bedroom. Inside the room, they encountered Stephen Cogelia armed with a hunting knife. During the

encounter, one trooper fired his service weapon, striking and killing Cogelia. Cogelia was pronounced dead at the

scene. No troopers were injured. 

The investigation is ongoing and no further information is being released at this time. 

In New Jersey, all investigations of police deadly force incidents are governed by the Attorney General's

Independent Prosecutor Directive, issued in 2006 and strengthened in 2015, which establishes strict procedures

for conducting such investigations. It requires the Attorney General to review all deadly force investigations, and in

some cases conduct them as well. In this case, the investigation is being conducted directly by the Attorney

General's Shooting Response Team. The directive further provides that unless the undisputed facts indicate the

use of force was justified under the law, the circumstances of the incident must ultimately be presented to a grand

jury, composed of 23 civilians, for its independent review. 

The Independent Prosecutor Directive is posted on the Attorney General's website at the following link:

www.nj.gov/oag/dcj/agguide/directives/2006-5_SRT_OIS.pdf 

Further information about how officer-involved shootings are investigated in New Jersey under the directive is

found at this link: 

www.nj.gov/oag/independent-prosecutor 

Contact: Peter Aseltine, 609/292-4791 

MSTRUCK-6329383 MSTRUCK 

Peter Aseltine, 609/292-4791 
 
 

State troopers again involved deadly shooting - Warren Reporter, The
(Hackettstown, NJ) - June 22, 2018 - page A1
June 22, 2018 | Warren Reporter, The (Hackettstown, NJ) | Steve Novak | Page A1

hardwick twp.

T wo men are dead following separate encounters with New Jersey State Police that happened only
days apart in the same Warren County township.

Both cases were under review by the state attorney general’s office.

Stephen Cog elia
Stephen Cogelia , 32, was shot and killed by a state trooper shortly after 9 p.m. June 12 at
Cogelia’s family’s home on Sunset Lake Road in Hardwick T ownship, according to a release on June
13 from the attorney general.

Cogelia’s father had asked him to leave after Cogelia threatened him and other occupants, the
release says.

While the father went to the state police

station in Hope Township to get a restraining order, Cogelia returned home and made more
threats, the attorney general said.

Five troopers responded and entered the home, where Cogelia threatened them, the release said.

T hey reportedly encountered Cogelia in a second-floor bedroom, where he was armed with a
hunting knife.

T he attorney general says one trooper opened fire, killing Cogelia, who was pronounced dead at
the scene.

T he troopers were not hurt.

T odd Gregory, a 47-year-old man from Coram, New York, died after a chase on June 9 that started
on Interstate 80 in Knowlton T ownship, near the Delaware Water Gap and Pennsylvania border.

Gregory was wanted in connection with a dispute in Long Island earlier that day, in which he
allegedly harassed a man and his family.

Police had said Gregory fired a shot at a group of people in front of the other man’s home and hit
a car. A 15-year-old boy standing behind the vehicle was wounded by debris from the shots and
was hospitalized for minor injuries, according to Suffolk County police.

New Jersey State Police had been alerted that Gregory was armed, suicidal and planned to engage
police, according to a news release Saturday from the attorney general’s office.

T roopers lost sight of the truck during a pursuit, but found it about 11:30 p.m. parked off Old Mine
Road in Hardwick T ownship. A gun was fired inside the vehicle as troopers approached, and one of
the officers opened fire, the attorney general’s office said. Gregory had two rifles in his truck. He
was pronounced dead at the scene.

It remained unclear Wednesday if Gregory took his own life or if police fired the fatal shot.

T here is an official review anytime police use deadly force. In these cases, both shootings are
under investigation by the attorney general’s shooting response team, according to news releases.

Under a state directive, the cases will go to a grand jury “unless the undisputed facts indicate that
the use of force wasjustified under the law.”

No estimate was provided Wednesday to indicate how long the reviews would take.

Steve Novak, NJ Advance Media, snovak@ lehighvalleylive.com"

Copyrig ht 2018 The Warren Reporter. All Rights Reserved.

 

Oklahoma Highway Patrol recognizes tactical team - Oklahoman, The
(Oklahoma City, OK) - November 30, 2018
November 30, 2018 | Oklahoman, The (Oklahoma City, OK) | Silas Allen Staff Writer sallen@oklahoman.com

T he Oklahoma Highway Patrol on Thursday recognized a team of troopers that took heavy
injuries during a gunfight in eastern Oklahoma earlier this year.

Five members of the tactical team were injured during a firefight that ensued when they attempted
to serve a no-knock search warrant early in the morning of May 11 in T alihina. A sixth trooper,
Sammy Lee, was saved from a bullet by his ballistic vest.

During a news conference Thursday in Oklahoma City, Lee said he didn't notice he'd been hit until a
medic spotted the bullet in the vest. Lee described the vest as "outstanding."

During the news conference, Mike Schoenberger, a representative for Armor Express, a body
armor manufacturer, presented Lee with a new vest to replace the one he wore during the
firefight.

Schoenberger, a former Oklahoma City police officer, said law enforcement officers should always
be able to count on their training, their equipment and their fellow officers during incidents like the
one last May.

T he incident began shortly after 6 a.m., when the tactical team breached a door at a home in
T alihina to serve a search warrant, said Capt. Tim T ipton, the highway patrol's tactical team
commander. T he home was the residence of Bradley Webster
violent criminal history.

B radley Webster, 52, whom authorities said had a

As soon as troopers breached the door, a shootout ensued. Troopers Brett Stevens, Brandon
Seward, Chris Bunch, Jason Ross and Tim Wesley all suffered minor injuries in the shootout.
Webster was shot and killed.

After the melee, the team fell back. Moments later, Lee noticed fire coming from inside the
building, T ipton said. T he T alihina Fire Department was on standby, and troopers notified them
about the fire. While attending to the injured troopers, medics noticed Lee's ballistic vest had
stopped a bullet from striking his lower right torso, T ipton said.

After the fire was extinguished, investigators found Webster's body inside the burned-out home,
as well as an AR-15 rifle, an Uzi automatic pistol, a handgun and numerous cartridge cases, T ipton
said.

T ipton said the incident was a testament to the team's experience and professionalism. Although
the tactical team serves dozens of search warrants per year, the incident last May was unusually
chaotic because of the fire and because Webster had automatic weapons, he said.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Oklahoma Publishing  Company

 

Report: Police warned of man who died in Oklahoma - Associated Press
State Wire: Oklahoma (OK) - July 3, 2018
July 3, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Oklahoma (OK)

T ALIHINA, Okla. (AP) — Court filings show law enforcement had been warned that a man who died
after a shootout with Oklahoma troopers had said he wanted to attack a small-town city hall.

B radley
T he McAlester News-Capital reports an informant told the T alihina police chief he went to B radley
Daniel Webster
Daniel Webster's home days before Webster's May 11 gunfight with troopers. T he informant
said Webster had an AK-47 assault rifle and Uzi pistol.

A search warrant affidavit reveals 52-year-old Webster told the informant he had the weapons
"because he was not going back to jail and was ready to go on a shooting spree at City Hall."

T he shooting occurred as troopers attempted to serve a warrant approved on probable cause
that Webster was a felon barred from owning guns.

Four troopers were hurt and an ensuing fire consumed several buildings in downtown T alihina.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Suspect killed in Talihina incident was convicted - Times Record (Fort
Smith, AR) - May 25, 2018 - page A3
May 25, 2018 | Times Record (Fort Smith, AR) | Max Bryan Times Record mbryan@swtimes.com | Article |
Page A3

T he man who was killed in a firefight with Oklahoma troopers in T alihina had a criminal history that
spanned Oklahoma and Arkansas.

B radley Daniel Webster
B radley Daniel Webster, 52, of T alihina was killed in an officer-involved shooting that occurred
after he fire a gun and possibly detonated a booby trap at tactical troopers with Oklahoma
Highway Patrol when they tried to serve a “high-risk” narcotics warrant on him on the morning of
May 11 in T alihina, Capt. Paul T immons with OHP said. Court documents show Webster was a
convicted felon in Polk County and had pending felony charges stemming from offenses in LeFlore
County six months prior to his death.

Webster opened fire “with what investigators believe to be a fully automatic weapon,” a May 14
news release from OHP states. One of his convictions in Polk County, which stemmed from a
firefight following the attempted robbery of his residence on April 9, 2006, was possession or use
of a machine gun, according to Polk County court documents.

Webster killed one suspect while defending his residence during the incident, according to the
affidavit. He did not face any charge in connection with the slaying.

Webster’s other convictions that arose from this incident were for first-degree endangering the
welfare of a minor, manufacturing 10-100 pounds of marijuana, possession of marijuana with
intent to deliver, possession of drug paraphernalia and possession of a defaced firearm. T he
defaced firearm was the 9mm Uzi submachine gun that was the source of his possession or use of
a machine gun charge, according to documents.

T immons said he did not know how Webster, a convicted felon, obtained the gun he used to fire at
troopers on May 11.

Webster’s pending felony charges in LeFlore County were felony throw or drop object on motor
vehicle, felony malicious injury to property and misdemeanor breaking and entering without
permission. Webster was charged after he screamed at people inside a dump truck at a red light,
banged on and dented the passenger side door of the vehicle, screamed profanities at the people
inside after opening the passenger door and threw a rock at the windshield on Nov. 14, 2017, in
T alihina, according to court documents.

T immons said Webster had “made threats about not going back to prison and made threats
against law enforcement” prior to his death on May 11. T alihina Police Chief Rodney Faulkenberry
said members of his department had “had dealings” with Webster in the past, but did not specify
any further.

T he possible booby trap is a suspected cause of a fire that destroyed two historic buildings in
downtown T alihina on May 11, T immons said. T he firefight and fire prompted the response of 17
fire departments, four emergency management agencies and seven law enforcement agencies,
according to John Waggoner with the Police Department.

All of downtown T alihina was blocked off for three days following the firefight and fire, Waggoner
said. T he intersection of Second and Dallas streets, which is near the two buildings that were
destroyed in the fire, was still blocked off with crime scene tape on May 17.

T he two buildings destroyed by the fire have been demolished, and crime scene tape has been
entirely lifted from downtown T alihina.

Faulkenberry said the town “will bounce back” from the May 11 incident.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Times Record. All Rights Reserved.

 
Trooper receives new vest - Officer was shot in - Times Record (Fort
Smith, AR) - November 30, 2018 - page A1
November 30, 2018 | Times Record (Fort Smith, AR) | Silas Allen The Oklahoman sallen@oklahoman.com |
Article | Page A1

T he Oklahoma Highway Patrol on Thursday recognized a team of troopers that took heavy
injuries during a gunfight in eastern Oklahoma earlier this year.

Five members of the tactical team were injured during a firefight that ensued when they attempted
to serve a no-knock search warrant early in the morning of May 11 in T alihina. A sixth trooper,
Sammy Lee, took a bullet to his ballistic vest.

During a news conference Thursday in Oklahoma City, Lee said he didn't notice he'd been hit until a
medic spotted the bullet in his ballistic vest. Lee described the vest as "outstanding."

During the news conference, Mike Schoenberger, a representative for Armor Express, a body
armor manufacturer, presented Lee with a new vest to replace the one he wore during the
firefight.

Schoenberger, a former Oklahoma City police officer, said law enforcement officers should always
be able to count on their training, their equipment and their fellow officers during incidents like the
one last May.

T he incident began shortly after 6 a.m., when the tactical team breached a door at a home in
T alihina to serve a search warrant, said Capt. Tim T ipton, the highway patrol's tactical team
commander. T he home was the residence of Bradley Webster
violent criminal history.

B radley Webster, 52, whom authorities said had a

As soon as troopers breached the door, a shootout ensued. Troopers Brett Stevens, Brandon
Seward, Chris Bunch, Jason Ross and Tim Wesley all received minor injuries in the shootout.
Webster was shot and killed.

After the melee, the team fell back. Moments later, Lee noticed a fire coming from inside the
building, T ipton said. T he T alihina Fire Department was on standby, and troopers notified them
about the fire. While attending to the injured troopers, medics noticed Lee's ballistic vest had
stopped a bullet from striking his lower right torso, T ipton said.

After the fire was extinguished, investigators found Webster's body inside the burned-out home,
as well as an AR-15 rifle, an Uzi automatic pistol, a handgun and numerous cartridge cases, T ipton
said.

T ipton said the incident was a testament to the team's experience and professionalism. Although
the tactical team serves dozens of search warrants per year, the incident last May was unusually

chaotic because of the fire and because Webster had automatic weapons, he said.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Times Record. All Rights Reserved.

 
Talihina shootout suspect named - Poteau Daily News & Sun (OK) - May
23, 2018 - page 1
May 23, 2018 | Poteau Daily News & Sun (OK) | Amanda Corbin PDN Reporter | Page 1

T he Oklahoma Highway Patrol has officially identified the suspect in a May 11 shootout and fire in
downtown T alihina that left the suspect dead, four troopers injured and two buildings destroyed.

T he suspect was identified as 52-year-old Bradley Daniel Webster

B radley Daniel Webster of T alihina.

T roopers with the OHP Tactical Team executed a drug-related warrant on Webster’s residence in
the downtown area around 6 a.m. when he allegedly shot at police.

OHP Lt. Paul T immons said Webster may have “booby trapped” the building with an explosive
device, which ignited the building and another on fire when the troopers entered. T hey also were
met with gunfire and returned fire. Four troopers received minor injuries and a fifth was saved by
his ballistic vest. T he five troopers included Brett Stephens, Brandon Seward, Sammy Lee, Chris
Bunch and Chance T uttle.

Downtown T alihina was blocked off for a week as law enforcement combed the scene and
removed Webster’s body from the debris. In addition to his building, the old Treats and T reasures
was destroyed and has since been caved in. T he new Treats and T reasures, which was next door
to the former building, received smoke and roof damage.

In a press conference on the day of the shootout, T immons said the suspect — since identified as
Webster — had been known to police and had a criminal record. He said Webster had made anti-
police remarks in the past and said he would not be going back to prison. Webster had contacted
the Poteau Daily News more than once in the past with complaints about local law enforcement.

Webster was believed to have been housing or manufacturing drugs in the building.

In LeFlore County District Court, Webster had an ongoing felony criminal case filed in November on
accusations of throwing or dropping an object on a motor vehicle, malicious injury to property over
$1,000 and breaking and entering without permission. T alihina Police Chief Rodney Faulkenberry
worked the case. Webster was alleged to have used a rock to damage a vehicle then breaking into
it. He had been slated for a formal arraignment on May 29.

In 2006, Webster shot and killed two men who broke into his home near Mena, Ark. T he men —
Chris Pangle, 35, and Thai Flores, 23 — reportedly attempted to rob Webster. Webster was shot in
the abdomen and returned fire. His wife and 17-month-old son were reportedly home at the time.

A search of the residence allegedly uncovered a hydroponic marijuana growing operation with 292
plants. Although not charged in the deaths of the men, due to Webster defending himself and his
property, he was charged with endangering the welfare of a minor and drug-and firearm-related

charges.

T he T alihina fire and shootout ignited a multi-agency and multi-county response, with 18 fire
departments responding from several bordering counties as well as a number of emergency
management organizations.

T he OHP Criminal Investigations Division, the Bureau of Alcohol, T obacco, Firearms and Explosives
and the Fire Marshal’s Office are investigating the case.

Copyrig ht 2018, Poteau Daily News & Sun, All Rights Reserved.

 
OHP identifies Talihina shootout suspect - McAlester News-Capital &
Democrat (OK) - May 22, 2018
May 22, 2018 | McAlester News-Capital & Democrat (OK) | Derrick James | Staff writer

Officials released the identity of the suspect behind the T alihina shootout — and the man has a
criminal history.

B radley Daniel Webster, 52, of T alihina, was identified as the suspect that shot at law
B radley Daniel Webster
enforcement officers who were attempting to execute a search warrant on the morning of May
11, according to Oklahoma Highway Patrol Cpt. Paul T immons.

Four troopers suffered minor injuries from either shrapnel from the explosion or from gunfire; a
fifth trooper was struck in his bulletproof vest which stopped the round from penetrating and
ultimately saved his life, according to OHP.

OHP identified the injured troopers as Brett Stephens, Brandon Seward, Sammy Lee, Chris Bunch,
and Chance T uttle. T he troopers were treated and released from a T alihina-area hospital the same
day.

T he investigation into the resulting fire that destroyed two historic buildings in downtown T alihina
is still ongoing, but officials believe that Webster, based on his criminal history, may have had the
building "booby-trapped."

T immons said during the May 11 press conference that the suspect has "a violent criminal history"
and made threats against law enforcement in the past.

Webster also has previous run-ins with law enforcement, including an active criminal case.

LeFlore County District Court documents show Webster is named in an active criminal court case
for charges including felony throw or drop object on motor vehicle, felony malicious injury to
property – over $1000, and misdemeanor breaking and entering without permission. Police allege
in the case that Webster used a rock to damage a vehicle before allegedly breaking into the
vehicle.

Records show Webster waived his rights to a preliminary hearing on May 3 and was scheduled for
formal arraignment on May 29.

A supplemental information sheet prepared by the office of District 16 District Attorney Jeffrey
Smith states Webster was convicted in 2007 for felony first degree endangering welfare of a
minor and was sentenced to six years.

T he News-Capital obtained documents from the Circuit Court of Polk County, Arkansas, that state
Webster was also convicted and sentenced to the following under the same court case number:

1. T en years for felony possession of a schedule six controlled substance with intent to deliver

2. T en years felony possession of drug paraphernalia

3. Six years for felony possession of a defaced firearm

4. T en years for manufacturing a schedule six controlled substance

According to the documents, counts one through four "shall run concurrent" and the fifth count
"shall run consecutive" to the other counts for a total sentence of 240 months. Webster was
credited with 311 days served in jail, court documents state.

Arkansas Dept. of Correction documents state Webster came into custody on March 23, 2007 and
was released on parole Sept. 3, 2009 — a total of 895 days.

T he charges stemmed from an April 2006 home invasion that turned deadly. According to a
probable cause affidavit prepared by then-Polk County, Arkansas, Sheriff Mike Oglesby, Webster
shot and killed two men — Chris Pangle and Thai Flores, both of Henryetta, Oklahoma — who
broke into his then Mena, Arkansas residence — with guns while wearing ski masks.

Webster told investigators that "he was not a violent person" and stated he was at home when
two men broke the sliding glass door and set off the beeper alarm on the door, the affidavit
states. Webster says he saw possibly three people enter the room before he was shot in the right
lower abdomen by one of the men, according to the affidavit.

T he affidavit states Webster then returned fire in the general direction of the intruders and stated
he only recalled striking one and did not know if he shot any of the others, the affidavit states.
Documents show Webster was not charged in the two deaths.

According to the affidavit, statements from two other men that were with Pangle and Flores that
night admitted to investigators that "they were coming to Mena (Arkansas) to rob Webster," which
cleared Webster of any charges for the deaths.

A search warrant of the house after the incident revealed a 9 mm submachine gun, which was
defaced with no visible serial number and was modified to fire fully automatic, the affidavit states.

T he search also revealed an enclosed room with "an elaborate hydroponic marijuana growing
operation," while a second room was also found to have a marijuana growing operation in it and a
total of 292 marijuana plants were found from the search conducted by the Arkansas State Police,
the affidavit states.

According to the affidavit, Webster's wife, Amy, and then 17-month-old son were in the house at
the time of the incident. Amy Webster was arrested for being an accomplice in the marijuana
operation and the child was taken into temporary custody of the Arkansas Department of Human
Services, the affidavit states.

T he investigation into the May 11 incident is still under investigation by multiple agencies, including
the Oklahoma Highway Patrol, the Bureau of Alcohol, T obacco, Firearms and Explosives, and the
Fire Marshal's Office.

Contact Derrick James at djames@mcalesternews.com

Copyrig ht 2018, McAlester News-Capital & Democrat / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 
Details emerge in Talihina shootout, fire - - Poteau Daily News & Sun
(OK) - June 30, 2018 - page 1
June 30, 2018 | Poteau Daily News & Sun (OK) | Amanda Corbin PDN Reporter | Page 1

Search warrant documents from the LeFlore County Courthouse offer further details into the
T alihina fire and shootout which left one man dead dead, four troopers injured and two historic
buildings destroyed in the downtown.

T he suspect in the May 11 shootout was identified as 52-year-old Bradley Daniel Webster
T alihina.

B radley Daniel Webster of

T he Oklahoma Highway Patrol Tactical Team executed a search warrant on Webster’s residence
around 6 a.m. that day when he allegedly began to shoot at officers. T hey returned fire. Webster
died at the scene. Four troopers received non-life threatening injuries and a fifth was saved by his
ballistic vest.

T he search warrant for May 11-15 shows an inventory of items recovered from Webster’s
residence on Second Street. It listed this inventory of items recovered from the burnt-out structure
include: 28 cartridges, 64 casings, 52 projectiles, five magazine springs, firearm suppressor
components, one AR-type firearm, one Uzi-type firearm, one handgun-type firearm, one BB-type
firearm, one diversionary device (flash bang), one propane torch head, two ballistic plates, one
ballistic scope ring, a knife, magazine, pill bottle, cigarette lighter, cellphone, unknown piece of
metal, television and four fire debris samples.

T he warrant detailed an incident on May 9 where T alihina Police Chief Rodney Faulkenberry
arrested Robert Coleman for active warrants. It says Coleman told Faulkenberry he worked for
Webster and saw an assault rifle, AK-47 and an Uzi-style pistol in Webster’s home on May 5.
Coleman claims Webster, a convicted felon, had the weapons because he “was not going back to
jail and was ready to go on a shooting spree at city hall.”

Coleman told Faulkenberry about Webster’s past. In 2006, Webster shot and killed two men who
broke into his home near Mena, Ark. T he men — Chris Pangle, 35, and Thai Flores, 23 —
reportedly attempted to rob Webster’s marijuana grow he had at the residence. T he warrant said
Webster also shot a third person in the face. Webster was shot in the abdomen and returned fire.
His wife and 17-month-old son were reportedly home at the time.

A search of the residence allegedly uncovered the hydroponic marijuana growing operation with
292 plants. Although not charged in the deaths of the men, due to Webster defending himself and
his property, he was charged with endangering the welfare of a minor and drug-and firearm-
related charges.

T he warrant added that Coleman agreed to be an informant because he didn’t want to see anyone
killed. He also told the officers twice to be careful. Due to Webster’s history, a no-knock warrant

was requested.

Documents go on to explain what happened that day. When the tactical team breached the door
into Webster’s home, they deployed a diversionary device on a pole through a window, then
extricated the device. T his is when Webster is said to have began firing at the troopers. T hey
exchanged fire and took cover. A member of the team noticed a small fire inside but no one exited
the home. T he fire then consumed the building and spread to a second building, the old Treats and
T reasures.

T he T alihina fire and shootout ignited a multi-agency and multi-county response. Eighteen fire
departments responded from several bordering counties, as well as a number of emergency
management organizations. T he OHP Criminal Investigations Division, the Bureau of Alcohol,
T obacco, Firearms and Explosives and the Fire Marshal’s Office investigated the case.

Copyrig ht 2018, Poteau Daily News & Sun, All Rights Reserved.

 

 
April 09--OKLAHOMA CITY Several Oklahoma Highway Patrol troopers were recognized for their bravery at the

Trooper of the Year Awards on Tuesday. 

Oklahoma Highway Patrol Trooper Brett Stephens and six others, who are all members of the OHP Tactical Team,

were recognized for their involvement in a shootout with a suspect in Talihina last May. 

In May, officers with the Talihina Police Department asked the Oklahoma Highway Patrol for help while serving an

arrest warrant for 52-year-old Bradley Webster. 

The McAlester News-Capital says officers were concerned about taking Webster into custody after receiving a

report from an informant that Webster might be armed with an AK-47 and Uzi pistol.  A search warrant affidavit

claims that Webster told the informant he had the weapons because he was not going back to jail and was ready

to go on a shooting spree at City Hall. 

they reached Websters property in Talihina. 

Capt. Paul Timmons, with the Oklahoma Highway Patrol, says that troopers were immediately fired upon when

During the shootout, a fire started inside the downtown Talihina structure. Webster died at the scene. 

Once the shooting was over, officials learned that several troopers suffered minor injuries. In all, OHP says Brett

Stephens, Brandon Seward, Christopher Bunch, Chance Tuttle, Jason Ross and Timothy Wesley all received minor

injuries during the melee. 

Fire in Talihina after shootout 

Woodward last August. 

Inn on Highway 183. 

shooting at Ellis. 

Also, Trooper Austin Ellis was recognized for his actions at a routine traffic stop that turned into a shootout in

The Department of Public Safety says during the early morning hours of Aug. 26, OHP Trooper Austin Ellis was on

routine patrol and initiated a traffic stop for a seat belt violation near 34th and Oklahoma in Woodward. 

Officials say the driver, Arturo Ramirez, led the trooper on a short chase and then entered the parking lot of Days

After stopping at the hotel, Ramirez engaged the trooper in gunfire and the trooper responded. 

Video captured at the scene showed Ramirez sitting inside his car before he suddenly pulled out a gun and started

Warning this video may be upsetting to some viewers. Viewer discretion is advised.  

Ellis jumped behind the back of his patrol car as he returned fire. 

Trooper Ellis was shot in the exchange, but his vest stopped the bullet. However, officials say he likely suffered a

broken rib as a result of the bullet's impact. 

During Tuesday's ceremony, five other troopers were also presented with individual awards. 
 
 

Trooper receives new bulletproof vest - McAlester News-Capital &
Democrat (OK) - November 29, 2018
November 29, 2018 | McAlester News-Capital & Democrat (OK) | Derrick James | Staff Writer

A member of the Oklahoma Highway Patrol's Tactical Team received a new bulletproof vest
T hursday after the one he wore during a felony warrant service in May was damaged during a
shootout in T alihina.

OHP Trooper Sammy Lee was presented with a new bulletproof vest during a ceremony at the
Robert R. Lester T raining Center in Oklahoma City. Lee's vest was struck by a bullet fragment in the
front lower right torso, which protected him from what could have been a serious injury.

Six other troopers who were injured during the May 11 shootout in T alihina were also present for
the ceremony.

"I've watched this team in particular stand shoulder to shoulder several different times, rush head-
on into danger and always willing to give the ultimate sacrifice," OHP Chief Colonel Michael Harrell
said during the ceremony.

"What made this different was the chaos of it," said OHP Tactical Team Commander Tim T ipton.
"T he suspect had a fully-automatic and immediately began firing that fully-automatic weapon at
our guys, as well as the fire."

T he team was called to assist the T alihina Police Department in the service of a felony warrant at
the residence of 52-year-old Bradley Webster
B radley Webster. A no-knock warrant was issued after investigators
gathered information from a confidential source that Webster had in his possession an illegal fully-
automatic weapon.

T he search warrant affidavit claims that Webster told the informant he had the weapons "because
he was not going back to jail and was ready to go on a shooting spree at City Hall."

According to documents obtained by the News-Capital, after troopers breached the door, they
deployed a diversionary device on a pole through a window and then extricated the device. An
individual inside the residence – identified as Bradley Webster
B radley Webster – began firing a weapon at the
entry team, the affidavit states.

A fire inside of the building then spread and ultimately destroyed two historic buildings in downtown
T alihina. Bradley's body was later recovered by investigators inside of the fire-damaged residence
next to a fully-automatic Uzi pistol and an AR-15 rifle along with a handgun.

Mike Schoenberger, a representative of Armor Express, the manufacture of Lee's previous vest,
was present and presented Lee with the new bulletproof vest.

"We were proud to be able to provide you guys with your tactical body armor, but also more proud
that you are here because of the actual performance of the vest."

A plaque from the company was also presented to Lee "For exceptional ability, courage, fidelity,
and devotion to duty. T hereby exemplifying the highest tradition of law enforcement."

Lee then gave his recollection of what occurred during the May shootout.

"After the gunfire, we retreated back to a safe position," Lee said.

Once the troopers were at the safe position, Lee said that is when the tactical medics looked the
team over.

"I didn't feel any injuries at the time," Lee said. "So I wasn't too concerned about it."

T he trooper said medics then conducted a secondary search and found the bullet lodged in his
vest.

"I wasn't even aware I've been hit," the trooper said.

Lee said that it wasn't all about him.

"I'm here today because of my team," he said.

T roopers Stephens, Seward, Bunch, T uttle, Ross, and Wesley were then asked to join Lee at the
podium and each trooper briefly stated where they were that day and what injuries they received
from bullet fragments, debris, and shrapnel.

T ipton said he has numerous prior military service guys on the team and that the T alihina incident
made them feel like they were back overseas.

"For T alihina, Oklahoma, it was a really intense time," T ipton said.

Contact Derrick James at djames@mcalesternews.com

Copyrig ht 2018, McAlester News-Capital & Democrat / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 
Informant warned officers before Talihina shootout - McAlester News-
Capital & Democrat (OK) - July 2, 2018
July 2, 2018 | McAlester News-Capital & Democrat (OK) | DERRICK JAMES | STAFF WRITER

An informant warned law enforcement officers several times to "be careful" before a May 11
search warrant operation that ended in a shootout and explosion in downtown T alihina that left
five Oklahoma State Troopers injured, historic buildings destroyed, and the suspect dead.

B radley Daniel Webster
B radley Daniel Webster, 52, of T alihina, was identified by the Oklahoma Highway Patrol as the
suspect that was shot and killed by law enforcement officers who were attempting to execute a
search warrant on the morning of May 11.

Four troopers – Brett Stephens, Brandon Seward, Sammy Lee, Chris Bunch, and Chance T uttle –
suffered minor injuries from either shrapnel from the explosion or from gunfire; the fifth trooper
was struck in his bulletproof vest, which stopped the round from penetrating and "ultimately saved
his life," according to OHP.

T he no-knock warrant was authorized by LeFlore County Associate District Judge Marlon D. Fry on
May 10.

According to an affidavit for search warrant prepared by District 16 Drug and Violent Crime T ask
Force member Rodney Derryberry, the agent was involved in the investigation of felon in
possession of firearm and had probable cause that the following property constitutes evidence of
a crime as defined under Oklahoma Statutes in Title 21, felon in possession of firearm:

"One black in color Uzi pistol and one dark in color assault rifle (AK-47) with magazine and all other
firearms, projectiles, spent shell casings, ammunition, blood, hair, fibers, fingerprints, palm prints,
items containing DNA, clothing, and other microscopic, biological, and physical evidence, including
any device or apparatus used for concealment such as holsters or items used for transporting a
firearm, together with any bills, letters, titles, or other documents identifying the occupants of the
residence to be searched."

Derryberry wrote in the search warrant affidavit that on May 9, T alihina Chief of Police Rodney
Faulkenberry arrested an informant for active warrants and brought the individual to talk with
Derryberry.

Upon arrest, the informant told Faulkenberry that he saw a loaded AK-47, and an "Uzi style" pistol
while in the main living area of Webster's residence on May 5, the affidavit states.

T he informant said he asked Webster about the firearms because he knew that Webster was a
convicted felon, according to the affidavit. Webster allegedly responded that he had "them and
more because he was not going back to jail and was ready to go on a shooting spree at City Hall,"
the affidavit states.

Derryberry wrote in the affidavit that the individual believed that the firearms were replicas, until the
informant picked up the assault rifle and charged the bolt and a live round ejected out of the
chamber.

T he informant knew "this was not good" because of Webster's past criminal history and that
Webster had told the informant "he had previously shot and killed two guys in the past," the
affidavit states.

According to the affidavit, Derryberry found news stories from April 2006 in Mena, Arkansas,
stating that Webster shot and killed two people, plus shot a third person in the face during an
attempted robbery of a "marijuana grow."

Faulkenberry observed counter surveillance cameras attached to the residence to be searched
facing the west alleyway and also facing Second Street, the affidavit states.

T he informant told the investigators that he would be a named informant on a search warrant,
when asked why, the informant said, "because he doesn't want to see anyone killed," and told the
investigators twice "to be careful" if investigators went to the residence, the affidavit states.

T he court was asked to recognize the threat to law enforcement and public safety that Webster
had used deadly force in the past to protect criminal activity for the request of the no-knock search
warrant, the affidavit states.

LeFlore County Associate District Judge Marlon D. Fry authorized the search of Webster's property
"in the daytime to make a search of said persons, residence, vehicles, and/or buildings and
premises, the curtilage thereof and appurtenances thereto belonging to the described property,
for said property, and if found to seize the same, and make a written return hereof according to
law; a no knock warrant for immediate officer safety and public safety is authorized by the court,"
the search warrant states.

According to a second affidavit for search warrant prepared by Oklahoma Highway Patrol T rooper
Scott Miller, with OHP's Troop Z, at approximately 6:04 a.m. May 11, members of the OHP
T actical Team began to make entry into the residence to be searched while assisting in the
execution of a search warrant.

Miller wrote in the affidavit that shortly after troopers breached the door, they deployed a
diversionary device on a pole through a window and then extricated the device, the affidavit states.
T hen a resident inside the structure began firing a weapon at the entry team, the affidavit states.

According to the affidavit, the entry team visually observed only three entry points to the residence
and saw the suspect did not exit the residence.

T roopers also noticed a small fire inside the residence before it consumed the building and spread
into an adjacent building, according to the affidavit. T he affidavit states the interior of the
residence contained evidence of a crime.

T he trooper requested in the search warrant for permission to thoroughly search the residence
both from the ground and from the air with a drone camera.

T he search warrant was directed to the Sheriff of LeFlore County or any of his duly appointed and
authorized deputies, any constable or peace officer of the State of Oklahoma, including any Drug
T ask Force Officer/Investigator with the Sixteenth Judicial District, Trooper of Oklahoma Highway
Patrol, Agent of the Oklahoma State Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drug, Agent of the
Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation, or Special Agents and T ask Force Officers of the Drug
Enforcement Agency, Special Agent of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, or any other
state or federal peace officer.

T he second search warrant was authorized by Fry at 11:10 a.m. May 11 for any officer executing
the search warrant both on land and by air including the using a drone camera to facilitate the
search in the daytime or nighttime, the search warrant stated.

T he warrant was returned May 15 by Miller and the inventory of the search seized from Webster's
residence include:

28 cartridges

64 casings

52 projectiles

Five magazine springs

Firearm suppressor components

One AR type firearm

One Uzi type firearm

One BB type rifle

One diversionary device (flash bang)

One propane torch head

T wo ballistic plates

T wo keys

One pill bottle

One ballistic scope ring

One handgun type firearm (barrel, slide, and trigger mechanism)

One cigarette lighter

One cell phone

One unknown piece of metal

One magazine

One knife

One television

Four fire debris samples (collected by AT F)

Contact Derrick James at djames@mcalsternews.com

Copyrig ht 2018, McAlester News-Capital & Democrat / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 

Man killed by officer outside Chicago wanted in - Associated Press
State Wire: Illinois (IL) - July 26, 2018
July 26, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

LAKEMOOR, Ill. (AP) — Authorities say a man who was fatally shot by police in suburban Chicago
was wanted in connection with the death of an elderly man in Pennsylvania.

Kenneth Edwin
Lake County Sheriff's Office Sgt. Christopher Covelli said Thursday 36-year-old Kenneth Edwin
M artell of Springboro, Pennsylvania, was a suspect in a slaying that occurred Monday.
M artell

Martell was shot early Thursday in Lakemoor, about 40 miles northwest of Chicago. T he shooting
occurred after an officer spotted an SUV parked on a single-lane access road and stopped to
investigate.

Covelli says the man pulled out a handgun after the officer approached the SUV. He says the two
struggled over the weapon when a second officer arrived and the man was shot.

Pennsylvania State Police named Martell in a murder warrant in the death of 88-year-old T heodore
Garver during a robbery attempt.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Pennsylvania slaying suspect was armed - - Barrington Courier-Review
(IL) - August 2, 2018 - page 9
August 2, 2018 | Barrington Courier-Review (IL) | Frank Abderholden | Page 9

New details from the officer-involved shooting last week in Lakemoor emerged July 27 when
officials said the officer did not run the license plate before approaching a man sleeping in a vehicle
backed into a remote gravel service driveway.

T he vehicle in which Pennsylvania slaying suspect Kenneth Edwin M artell
front license plate because it is not required in that state, law enforcement authorities said.

Kenneth Edwin Martell slept did not have a

"She conversed with him for a period of time," said Sgt. Christopher Covelli, spokesman for the
Major Crime T ask Force, which investigates all officer-involved shootings in the county. "She then
ran the plate through dispatch using her radio. She ran the plate and shortly after, that is when he
attacked."

Authorities said the encounter escalated quickly into a deadly confrontation. No officers were
injured.

T he female officer approached the vehicle, which was in an area where cars are usually not parked,
with the front facing Four Seasons Boulevard, Covelli said.

T he officer woke Martell, 36, of Springboro, Pa., who was wanted on an arrest warrant in
connection with a slaying in Crawford County, Pa. T he name of the officer has not been released.

"He attacked her by pointing a gun, and the struggle was to keep the gun from pointing to her,"
Covelli said.

"He was reaching for a second weapon while struggling with the first one."

A backup unit arrived during the struggle, Covelli said, and the murder suspect started to reach for
another weapon inside the vehicle when he was shot by police. Martell was pronounced dead at the
scene.

"T he body cameras are going to be very important in this case," Covelli said. T he female officer
has just less than two years of total police experience and the male officer has 13 years of total
police experience, he said.

According to Trooper Cindy Schick of Pennsylvania State Police, vehicles are required to have only
a rear license plate in that state. Covelli said investigators are still working on why Martell was in
Lakemoor, a small village on the Lake and McHenry county border.

Martell was accused of killing 88-year-old Theodore Garver during a July 23 robbery attempt.

Martell killed the man and forced three people at gunpoint to help dump the man's body in a pond,
according state police.

According to T he Associated Press, an autopsy showed Garver died of sharp-force injuries to the
neck and some assault-related blunt- and sharp-force injuries. Police recovered his body July 24
from the pond.

"Both Lakemoor officers were transported to a local hospital for evaluation (with this) being an
officer-involved shooting," Covelli said at the scene.

Officer-involved shootings are investigated by the task force, and then findings are forwarded to
the Lake County state's attorney's office for review.

fabderholden@tribpub.com

T witter @abderholden

Copyrig ht, 2018, Barring ton Courier-Review, Pioneer Press. All rights reserved. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED.

 
Man shot by Lakemoor cops was wanted in Pa. - - Lake County News-
Sun (Waukegan, IL) - July 27, 2018 - page 1
July 27, 2018 | Lake County News-Sun (Waukegan, IL) | Frank Abderholden | Page 1

A man shot and killed by Lakemoor police after he allegedly pulled two weapons on officers
T hursday morning was wanted in connection with the death of an elderly man earlier this week in
Pennsylvania, according to the Lake County Major Crime T ask Force.

Lake County sheriff's Sgt. Christopher Covelli, spokesman for the task force, confirmed late
T hursday that Kenneth Edwin M artell
occurred overnight Monday in Crawford County, Pa.

Kenneth Edwin M artell, 36, of Springboro, Pa., was a suspect in a murder that

Lake County Coroner Howard Cooper said an autopsy Thursday afternoon showed Martell died
from injuries suffered by a gunshot wound to the face. He said toxicology reports are pending.

Lake County authorities were in contact with Pennsylvania State Police concerning their search for
Martell, who was named in a murder warrant that was issued earlier this week, according to
T rooper Cindy Schick of the Pennsylvania State Police.

Martell allegedly went to the home of 88-year-old Theodore Garver to rob him late Monday but
killed him and then forced three people at gunpoint to help him get rid of the body in a pond,
according to state police.

According to T he Associated Press, an autopsy Wednesday on Garver showed he died of sharp-
force injuries to the neck and some assault-related blunt- and sharp-force injuries. Police recovered
his body Tuesday from the pond.

T he shooting Thursday began with an officer investigating a suspicious man in a vehicle in the
small village of Lakemoor, on the border of Lake and McHenry counties. According to Covelli, the
incident took place about 5 a.m. on a gravel road off Four Seasons Boulevard near the Lakemoor
Country Club that leads into the Meadows Apartments off west Sullivan Lake Road.

"T he Lakemoor Officer exited her squad car to check on the vehicle and adult male occupant,"
Covelli wrote in a statement. "While the Lakemoor Officer was speaking to the man, he produced a
handgun. A struggle ensued between the man and the Lakemoor Officer.

"During the struggle, a second Lakemoor Officer arrived at the scene. As he approached, he
observed the offender was in possession of a second handgun. At least one of the two Lakemoor
Officers fired at the man."

Covelli said Martell was struck by gunfire and subsequently pronounced dead at the scene.

"Both Lakemoor officers were transported to a local hospital for evaluation (with this) being an

officer-involved shooting," Covelli said at the scene.

According to Covelli, the Lakemoor officers were equipped with body cameras but evidence would
not be immediately available as the investigation proceeds.

fabderholden@tribpub.com

T witter @abderholden

Copyrig ht, 2018, Lake County News-Sun (Waukeg an, IL). All rights reserved. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED.

 

 
A man shot and killed by Lakemoor police after he allegedly pulled two weapons on officers Thursday morning was

wanted in connection with the death of an elderly man earlier this week in Pennsylvania, according to the Lake

County Major Crimes Task Force.  

Lake County sheriff's Sgt. Christopher Covelli, spokesman for the task force, confirmed late Thursday that Kenneth

Edwin Martell, 36, of Springboro, Pa., was a suspect in a homicide that occurred overnight Monday in Crawford

County, Pa. 

Lake County Coroner Howard Cooper said an autopsy Thursday afternoon showed Martell died from injuries

suffered by a gunshot wound to the face. He said toxicology reports are pending. 

Lake County authorities were in contact with Pennsylvania State Police concerning their search for Martell, who

was named in a murder warrant that was issued earlier this week, according to Trooper Cindy Schick of the

Pennsylvania State Police. 

Martell allegedly went to the home of 88-year-old Theodore Garver to rob him late Monday but killed him and then

forced three people at gunpoint to help him get rid of the body in a pond, according to state police. 

According to The Associated Press, an autopsy Wednesday on Garver showed he died of sharp-force injuries to the

neck and some assault-related blunt- and sharp-force injuries. Police recovered his body Tuesday from the pond. 

The shooting Thursday began with an officer investigating a suspicious man in a vehicle in the small village of

Lakemoor, on the border of Lake and McHenry counties. According to Covelli, the incident took place about 5 a.m.

on a gravel road off Four Seasons Boulevard near the Lakemoor Country Club that leads into the Meadows

Apartments off west Sullivan Lake Road. 

"The Lakemoor Officer exited her squad car to check on the vehicle and adult male occupant," Covelli wrote in a

statement. "While the Lakemoor Officer was speaking to the man, he produced a handgun. A struggle ensued

between the man and the Lakemoor Officer. 

"During the struggle, a second Lakemoor Officer arrived at the scene. As he approached, he observed the offender

was in possession of a second handgun. At least one of the two Lakemoor Officers fired at the man." 

Covelli said Martell was struck by gunfire and subsequently pronounced dead at the scene. 

"Both Lakemoor officers were transported to a local hospital for evaluation (with this) being an officer-involved

shooting," Covelli said at the scene. 

According to Covelli, the Lakemoor officers were equipped with body cameras but evidence would not be

immediately available as the investigation proceeds. 

Officer-involved shootings are investigated by the task force, and then findings are forwarded to the Lake County

state's attorney's office for review. 

---------- 

fabderholden@tribpub.com 

Twitter @abderholden 

CREDIT: By Frank Abderholden, News-Sun 
 


Authorities look for link between Illinois - Meadville Tribune, The (PA) -
July 26, 2018
July 26, 2018 | Meadville Tribune, The (PA) | Meadville Tribune

Authorities in Illinois and Pennsylvania are trying to determine if a man killed by police in Illinois this
morning is the Cochranton man wanted for the murder of an elderly Springboro area man.

Chris Covelli, a spokesman for the Lake County (Illinois) Major Crimes T ask Force, confirmed to the
T ribune that there was a fatal shooting by police just after 5 a.m. Central Daylight Time in
Lakemoor, Ill., about 50 miles northwest of Chicago.

Covelli said the man killed was driving a vehicle with Pennsylvania plates.

Covelli confirmed authorities in Lake County are working with Pennsylvania State Police to
determine the man's identity and if there's any connection with the recent northwest Pennsylvania
homicide.

Kenneth Edwin M artell
Kenneth Edwin M artell, 36, of Cochranton is wanted by Pennsylvania State Police for the killing
T heodore M. Garver, 88, of 2443 Parker Road, Springboro area, during a robbery at Garver's
home on Monday. Martell was driving a Kia Sorento with a Pennsylvania license plate, according to
state police.

Covelli said a female Lakemoor Police Department officer observed a suspicious SUV backed into a
gravel area, on the west side of Four Seasons Boulevard. T he officer exited her squad car to check
on the vehicle and adult male occupant.

Covelli said that while the officer was speaking to the man, he produced a handgun and a struggle
ensued.

During the struggle, a second Lakemoor officer arrived at the scene. As he approached, he
observed the man was in possession of a second handgun. At least one of the two Lakemoor
Officers fired at the man. T he man was struck and subsequently pronounced deceased at the
scene.

Both officers were transported to a local hospital for evaluation, Covelli said.

T he Lake County Major Crime T ask Force currently is investigating the incident. T he Lake County
Coroner's Office responded to the scene and an autopsy is scheduled for this afternoon.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Meadville Tribune / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 
FULL STORY: Springboro area man's death ruled - Allied News (Grove
City, PA) - July 26, 2018
July 26, 2018 | Allied News (Grove City, PA) | Keith Gushard Meadville Tribune

T he elderly Springboro area man found in a pond in northwestern Crawford County on T uesday
died from a stab wound to the neck and sustained multiple other trauma.

Crawford County Coroner Scott Schell officially ruled the death of Theodore M. Garver, 88, a
homicide following completion of an autopsy Wednesday afternoon in Erie.

Kenneth Edwin M artell, wanted by Pennsylvania State Police at Meadville on homicide and other
Kenneth Edwin M artell
charges for Garver's death, remains at large.

T he autopsy report from Dr. Eric Vey listed Garver's death because of "sharp force injury to the
neck," Schell said. Garver had both assault and blunt force injuries as well as binding and restraint
injuries on his arms and legs, Schell said.

"Mr. Garver had several blunt force injuries to his head and other trauma to various parts of his
body," he said.

In court documents filed against Martell, state police said Garver had been stabbed with a knife and
had been tied to a rocking chair with his body bound with duct tape and an electrical wire.

Garver's body was recovered by authorities Tuesday morning in a pond off Reeds Corners Road,
about a mile west of Garver's home at 2443 Parker Road in Beaver T ownship.

With the completion of the autopsy, Garver's remains have been released to McCauley Funeral
Home of Conneautville, which is handling funeral arrangements, Schell said.

Authorities went to Garver's home and the Reeds Corners Road area Tuesday morning after two
people who said they were forced at gunpoint to help Martell cover up his alleged crime contacted
Meadville Police Department.

T he hunt for Martell, 36, of Cochranton continued on Wednesday with state police saying Martell
may be driving a 2011 Kia Sorento. T he vehicle is a small sport utility vehicle that is gold or silver
and has Pennsylvania license plate KHL-4596.

Crawford County District Attorney Francis Schultz said Wednesday the vehicle had Pittsburgh
Steelers headrests and Steelers dice hanging from its rear view mirror.

Asked whether Martell and Garver may have known each other prior to Garver's death, Schultz said
that had not been confirmed. He said authorities believed Martell previously "may have fished in
ponds in the area" near Garver's home.

Schultz declined comment on whether the alleged murder weapon had been recovered.

Martell allegedly threatened three others with a handgun, including Martell's mother, to help
Martell cover up the murder, according to court documents.

Keith Gushard can be reached at 724-6370 or by email at kgushard@meadvilletribune.com.

You can help

Anyone with information on the whereabouts of Kenneth E. Martell, wanted in the death of
T heodore M. Garver, is asked to contact Pennsylvania State Police at Meadville at (814) 332-6911.

Copyrig ht 2018, Allied News / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 
Police confirm Springboro area murder suspect - Meadville Tribune,
The (PA) - July 26, 2018
July 26, 2018 | Meadville Tribune, The (PA) | Meadville Tribune

Pennsylvania State Police have confirmed the man killed this morning by police in Illinois was the
suspect in this week's homicide near Springboro.

Kenneth Edwin M artell, 36, was killed early this morning in an apparent police shooting in
Kenneth Edwin M artell
Lakemoor, Ill., Trooper Cynthia Schick, public information information officer for state police T roop
E, confirmed to the Tribune this afternoon.

Lakemoor, in northern Illinois, is about 50 miles northwest of Chicago and about 490 miles west of
Springboro.

Martell had been wanted by Pennsylvania State Police at Meadville for killing Theodore M. Garver,
88, of 2443 Parker Road, Beaver T ownship, during a robbery at Garver's home on Monday.

Pick up a copy of Friday's print edition of T he Meadville Tribune or check later with
meadvilletribune.com for more details.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Meadville Tribune / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 


 
FARGO With three of his officers on paid administrative leave after shooting two suspects in the past month,

Police Chief David Todd on Monday, March 26, gave city commissioners a behind-the-scenes look at what happens

next. 

The state Bureau of Criminal Investigation and the Fargo Police Department are both investigating the officers' use

of force, according to the chief. The department also is providing psychological support to the officers in the wake

of what are also traumatic incidents for them. 

Sgts. Shane Aberle and Troy Hannig, both members of the Red River Valley SWAT team, are on leave after the fatal

shooting of Justin Dietrich, 32, during a March 12 standoff in West Fargo. Moorhead Officer Brandon Desautel and

Clay County Deputy Kyle Diekmann are also on leave from the same incident. 

Officer Jacob Rued is on leave after the recent shooting of Orlando Estrada, 28, during a domestic incident in south

Fargo. Estrada survived the shooting and is in the Cass County Jail. 

Todd said the BCI will determine if the officers followed state law. That should take three to four weeks. He said his

department will determine if the officers followed its policies and training. 

The department also has to take care of the officers because they faced deadly threats and feared for their lives,

he said. Typically that takes the form of a talk with their peers after the shooting and a visit with a police

psychologist within 24 to 48 hours of a shooting. A more intensive debriefing with other officers on the scene

comes later, Todd said. 

feeling. 

The department will also check on them during their leave and conduct a psychological fitness test to see if they're

ready to return, Todd said. When they do return, they'll be followed for the first few nights to see how they're

The goal, he said, is for officers to continue with their career for many years to come. 

The chief also gave the City Commission a report on 2017 crime statistics, which shows a higher rate of petty

crimes but a small decrease in serious crimes. 

His report shows the number of Part I crimes, which include homicide and gross sexual imposition, decreased by

seven compared to 2016, a 0.2 percent decrease. The number of Part II crimes, which include shoplifting and

burglary, increased by 1,104, an 18 percent increase. 

The chief said he thinks the increase in petty crimes is, in part, because city leaders funded more officers who can

do more patrolling. But, he said, some of it is because many criminals are drug addicts stealing to feed their habits

and some because mentally ill people don't get the treatment they need. 

There are also what he called "career criminals" who make a living stealing, he said, giving the example of one

suspect with 50 cases last year. He said he feels their jail sentences aren't long enough. 

Todd said he expects that these petty crimes will level off as his officers continue their work. 

CREDIT: Tu-Uyen Tran Forum News Service 
 
 

Man killed by police suspected of having stolen - Associated Press State
Wire: North Dakota (ND) - March 14, 2018
March 14, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: North Dakota (ND)

WEST  FARGO, N.D. (AP) — Police say the man fatally shot by officers in West Fargo was suspected
of having stolen handguns.

Authorities say West Fargo officers began pursuing 32-year-old Justin Lee Dietrich
after he refused to pull over. Police say Dietrich rammed a squad car during the pursuit and
eventually pulled into a driveway.

Justin Lee Dietrich Monday night

Officers surrounded the vehicle and tried to talk Dietrich out of the vehicle. Tactical officers were
called to the scene. Authorities say about two hours later Dietrich got out of the vehicle, refused to
follow commands, posed "an imminent deadly threat" to officers and was shot.

Dietrich was pronounced dead at the hospital. Two Fargo SWAT  officers who fired their weapons
have been placed on administrative leave.

T he North Dakota Bureau of Criminal Investigation is reviewing the shooting.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
WEST FARGO Authorities have identified the man fatally shot by members of the Red River Valley SWAT Team

during a Monday night standoff as Justin Lee Dietrich, a 32-year-old Fargo native who had a criminal history and

was suspected of possessing stolen handguns. 

West Fargo Police Chief Heith Janke said the incident began about 8:30 p.m. Monday when a West Fargo officer

tried to pull over Dietrich. However, the attempted traffic stop turned into a high-speed chase through the city,

Janke said. 

the vehicle. 

Dietrich rammed a West Fargo police vehicle during the pursuit, and he eventually stopped in the 1000 block of

11th Street West. There, he holed up in his pickup truck, and Janke said authorities believed there were weapons in

At 10 p.m., the SWAT team took over negotiations with Dietrich. At 10:37 p.m., he got out of his truck, "refused to

follow commands, and posed an imminent deadly threat to the SWAT operators. Four SWAT operators fired at the

suspect," according to a joint news release from Fargo and West Fargo officials. 

Dietrich was taken by ambulance to Sanford Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead. 

It remains unclear why the officers saw Dietrich as "an imminent deadly threat." West Fargo spokeswoman Melissa

Richard said she could not confirm whether weapons were found in Dietrich's vehicle or whether he was armed

when he was shot. Moorhead police and a representative of the North Dakota Bureau of Criminal Investigation

directed all inquires about the shooting to West Fargo officials. 

Two of the SWAT team members who fired at Dietrich were identified as Sgts. Shane Aberle and Troy Hannig of the

Fargo Police Department, according to North Dakota officials. 

Aberle has been with the Fargo Police Department for 15 years. 

Hannig has been with the Fargo Police Department for 10 years, and became a sergeant in January 2017. 

The Moorhead Police Department identified the two Minnesota-based SWAT team members who fired at Dietrich

as Moorhead Officer Brandon Desautel and Clay County Deputy Kyle Diekmann. 

All four officers are on standard paid administrative leave. The North Dakota Bureau of Criminal Investigation is

investigating the shooting. 

CREDIT: Wendy Reuer Forum News Service 
 
 


4/26/2019

Louisiana trooper's killing of man in Hammond trafﬁc stop still shrouded in mystery | Crime/Police | theadvocate.com

https://www.theadvocate.com/baton_rouge/news/crime_police/article_4db84136-ca69-11e8-b108-
434ec0c48aa5.html

Louisiana trooper's killing of man in
Hammond tra c stop still shrouded in
mystery

BY LEA SKENE | LSKENE@THEADVOCATE.COM   OCT 7, 2018 - 7:43 PM

Coltin LeBlanc and his son, Brennan.

Lea Skene

https://www.theadvocate.com/baton_rouge/news/crime_police/article_4db84136-ca69-11e8-b108-434ec0c48aa5.html

1/9

4/26/2019

Louisiana trooper's killing of man in Hammond trafﬁc stop still shrouded in mystery | Crime/Police | theadvocate.com

Sherry Harper LeBlanc tried to convince her

son to stay home.

But Coltin LeBlanc, 23, wasn't listening. He gave

her a hug and told her to stop worrying about

him, that he would be alright — he'd be back in

20 minutes. Then he drove away.

Less than an hour after leaving his mom's house

in Loranger around midnight, Coltin LeBlanc

was in an ambulance being rushed to the

hospital. A traf c stop in downtown Hammond

led to a "struggle" that ended when a State

Police trooper discharged his service weapon,

striking the young man multiple times and

ultimately ending his life.

His mother said the hospital called her about 2

a.m. Sept. 27 telling her only that her son had

been involved in a "situation" and was

undergoing surgery. So she rushed to the

hospital, thinking it must have been a car

accident. 

Another three hours passed before two State

Police troopers  nally approached her in a

hospital waiting room, asking for her name and

address before telling that her son had been

shot during an encounter with police.

https://www.theadvocate.com/baton_rouge/news/crime_police/article_4db84136-ca69-11e8-b108-434ec0c48aa5.html

2/9

4/26/2019

Louisiana trooper's killing of man in Hammond trafﬁc stop still shrouded in mystery | Crime/Police | theadvocate.com

Coltin LeBlanc died later that morning while

doctors were operating on him.

RELATED
Louisiana State Police ID man
fatally shot after tra c stop
and ensuing 'struggle' in
Hammond

State Police have released few details about the

encounter, refusing to disclose why he was

pulled over or whether the incident was

captured on video. They've declined to release

the name of the trooper involved or whether

that person has been placed on leave during the

investigation, and they've denied a public

records request for footage of the incident.

But after The Advocate posted this story online

Sunday night, State Police spokesman Lt. Nick

Manale sent an email with more information.

He con rmed that the traf c stop was for a

license plate violation and that body camera

footage of the incident does exist and is being

reviewed during the investigation.

For Sherry LeBlanc, who buried her only child

last week, the unanswered questions are almost

unbearable.

https://www.theadvocate.com/baton_rouge/news/crime_police/article_4db84136-ca69-11e8-b108-434ec0c48aa5.html

3/9

4/26/2019

Louisiana trooper's killing of man in Hammond trafﬁc stop still shrouded in mystery | Crime/Police | theadvocate.com

"I know he must've done something wrong. He's

not perfect," she said. "But I think that what he

got was not what he deserved. ... I hope one day

to  nd out the truth."

Witness accounts

A law enforcement source told The Advocate

soon after the shooting that early accounts

suggested Coltin LeBlanc attempted to  ee

during the traf c stop and ended up dragging

the trooper alongside his vehicle. State Police

said the trooper was not injured during the

incident. 

driver. 

Witness accounts suggest that the of cer was

not dragged on the ground, but that he did grab

onto the  eeing vehicle in an attempt to stop its

Christopher LeTard was sitting outside Benny's

bar in downtown Hammond that night when he

and his friends saw a pickup truck — both

windows down, with country music playing —

being pulled over less than a block away on

North Oak Street.

https://www.theadvocate.com/baton_rouge/news/crime_police/article_4db84136-ca69-11e8-b108-434ec0c48aa5.html

4/9

4/26/2019

Louisiana trooper's killing of man in Hammond trafﬁc stop still shrouded in mystery | Crime/Police | theadvocate.com

They watched with mild interest as the trooper

ordered the driver out of his vehicle and spoke

to him for a minute before letting him get back

in the truck. They recall the driver motioning

like he was looking in the glove compartment

for paperwork. The driver's side door remained

open and the trooper was standing inside the

door shining a  ashlight, LeTard said. 

Suddenly the truck began to move as the driver

gassed it and pulled the wheel to the right,

turning the corner onto U.S. 190. LeTard said

the trooper appeared to be hanging onto the

door frame — "basically doing a pull up" with his

left arm through the open window — while

struggling with the driver.

LeTard said he could hear the trooper yelling at

the driver to stop the vehicle while it continued

accelerating, reaching around 35 or 40 miles

per hour. 

The struggle lasted less than one block as

witnesses reported hearing tires squealing,

followed almost immediately by about six

gunshots. Then the vehicle rolled to a stop.

https://www.theadvocate.com/baton_rouge/news/crime_police/article_4db84136-ca69-11e8-b108-434ec0c48aa5.html

5/9

4/26/2019

Louisiana trooper's killing of man in Hammond trafﬁc stop still shrouded in mystery | Crime/Police | theadvocate.com

LeTard said he thinks someone stepped on the

brakes but couldn't see whether it was the

driver or the trooper.

Once the truck had stopped the trooper

ordered the man to get out of the vehicle but he

"just kind of dropped to the ground."

LeTard con rmed that the pickup truck didn't

have a license plate but said he doesn't know

what caused the trooper to pull it over in the

 rst place. 

A bartender at Benny's said the business'

surveillance cameras captured the incident and

the video was turned over to police.

"It's just a tragic situation for both of them

really," LeTard said. "The whole thing escalated

so fast."

Can't see video below? Click here.

'Forever changed'

Coltin LeBlanc died the day before his 24th

birthday. Sherry LeBlanc said that when the

doctor told her that her son was dead, it felt

"like I was watching a movie, not actually living

through what was happening."

https://www.theadvocate.com/baton_rouge/news/crime_police/article_4db84136-ca69-11e8-b108-434ec0c48aa5.html

6/9

4/26/2019

Louisiana trooper's killing of man in Hammond trafﬁc stop still shrouded in mystery | Crime/Police | theadvocate.com

Tangipahoa Parish Coroner Dr. Rick Foster has

declined to release autopsy information,

including cause and manner of death, citing an

ongoing investigation. But Sherry LeBlanc said

that when she asked the doctor at the hospital

how many times her son was shot, he replied:

"Too many times for me to count while I was

concentrating on saving his life."

"That makes it sound like he was pumped full of

iron ... shot up," she said, sitting at her kitchen

table and staring down at dozens of

photographs spanning her son's life. "Why did

that trooper need to shoot him so many times?

That's what I don't understand."

Coltin LeBlanc had been arrested four times on

DWI and related counts during the months of

June and July 2016. He was convicted and

sentenced to a year in state prison. 

His arrests came about a year after the birth of

his son, Brennan, now 3 years old. Sherry

Leblanc said that was a rough time for Coltin,

who was going through a custody battle with

his son's mother.

https://www.theadvocate.com/baton_rouge/news/crime_police/article_4db84136-ca69-11e8-b108-434ec0c48aa5.html

7/9

4/26/2019

Louisiana trooper's killing of man in Hammond trafﬁc stop still shrouded in mystery | Crime/Police | theadvocate.com

She also said Coltin struggled for years with

alcoholism but had been sober for several

months after his 2017 release from prison. His

mother said she drove him to work each

morning at the local farmers' cooperative and

that he was spending as much time as possible

with Brennan — "being good and working hard."

He had saved up and recently bought the used

pickup truck he drove that fateful night,

obtaining the title just hours before his death.

But the truck still didn't have plates, and his

license was still suspended from the DWIs. His

mother said he planned to apply for a "hardship

license," which lets people drive to work and

make other essential trips.

"He was on the cusp of everything," Sherry

LeBlanc said. "He paid his debt and was

rebuilding his life. And now it's all gone — gone

in an instant because he made one stupid

decision. ... My life is forever changed, never to

be the same again."

She added that her son had been drinking the

night of his death but didn't appear intoxicated

when he left the house in his new truck. He told

https://www.theadvocate.com/baton_rouge/news/crime_police/article_4db84136-ca69-11e8-b108-434ec0c48aa5.html

8/9

4/26/2019

Louisiana trooper's killing of man in Hammond trafﬁc stop still shrouded in mystery | Crime/Police | theadvocate.com

her he was going to visit a friend down the road,

placing a hand on her shoulder and asking her

not to worry. That was their last conversation. 

His mother is left struggling to understand how

the night ended in tragedy, worried she'll never

know exactly what happened. 

"I just have to question why it was necessary to

shoot him like that. Couldn't they have tased

him instead? Wasn't there anything else they

could have done?" Sherry LeBlanc said.

"Nothing can bring Coltin back, but at this point

I'm praying for justice."

FOLLOW LEA SKENE ON TWITTER, @LEA_SKENE.

https://www.theadvocate.com/baton_rouge/news/crime_police/article_4db84136-ca69-11e8-b108-434ec0c48aa5.html

9/9

 

No charges for state trooper who shot Hammond man - Advocate, The
(Baton Rouge, LA) - March 11, 2019
March 11, 2019 | Advocate, The (Baton Rouge, LA) | Lea Skene

A Louisiana State Police trooper will not face criminal charges after the September incident in
downtown Hammond that started as a traffic stop and ended when the trooper fired six shots into
the fleeing vehicle, killing its driver.

T he 21st Judicial District Attorney's Office released documents Monday that detail the State Police
investigation and explain why District Attorney Scott Perrilloux recently decided the shooting was
justified. T hose reasons include concern for bystanders who could have been placed in danger if
the driver — who appeared intoxicated during the traffic stop — had successfully fled the scene.

But the driver's family is challenging the fairness of that decision, arguing investigators and
prosecutors are covering up criminal wrongdoing to protect their own.

T he trooper was identified in State Police records as Andre Bezou, who joined the agency as a new
recruit in August 2017 and became a state trooper less than a year before the fatal traffic stop.
T he incident was captured in body camera video, which reveals new details about what happened.

T he Advocate is not publishing the video due to its graphic content.

Coltin LeB lanc , 23, initially complied with Bezou's instructions during the
T he footage shows that Coltin LeB lanc
Sept. 27, 2018, traffic stop. He pulled over on North Oak Street and stepped out of his pickup truck
as instructed. But when he reentered the vehicle to get his driver's license, LeBlanc suddenly
pressed his foot to the accelerator and turned onto U.S. 190.

Bezou reacted almost instantaneously and grabbed onto the driver's door frame as the truck
accelerated, yelling instructions at LeBlanc. T he trooper discharged his weapon seconds later.

State Police interviewed several witnesses, who prosecutors said were all "consistent with the fact
that had Trooper Bezou not discharged his weapon, he would have been dragged or tossed from
the vehicle."

"T rooper Bezou noted that he immediately suspected intoxication when he encountered LeBlanc
and was fearful that allowing LeBlanc to speed away recklessly would endanger the innocent
bystanders that were present in downtown Hammond," according to a report from prosecutors
explaining their decision not to seek charges.

LeBlanc's mother adamantly disputes that assessment. She has not viewed video footage of the
incident but has from the beginning challenged whether her son's death was a necessary outcome.

"T hat cop put his own life in danger — he grabbed onto a moving vehicle," Sherry LeBlanc said in

an interview Monday. "T hat doesn't give him the right to kill my son. Why did he have to shoot so
many times?"

Sherry LeBlanc also acknowledged that her son had struggled with alcoholism and shouldn't have
been driving. He had been drinking earlier that night and his license was still suspended after four
DWI arrests in 2016 between the beginning of June and beginning of July.

T hose prior arrests resulted from Coltin LeB lanc
seat of a parked vehicle, often with open containers of beer in the cup holder, according to arrest
reports.

Coltin LeB lanc  being passed out from drinking in the driver's

T oxicology tests from the night of his death showed his blood alcohol content was 0.206, which is
over twice the state's 0.08 legal presumption of drunk driving. Prosecutors took that into
consideration when determining whether the shooting was justified.

"I thought the DA's office would do the right thing. T hat's what I hoped," Sherry LeBlanc said. "I've
always been one to support law enforcement, but I do not trust the system anymore because I
feel like they're covering it up and protecting their own."

Hobart Pardue, an attorney representing the family, said he has notified State Police that the
family is planning to pursue a wrongful death claim against the agency, seeking damages on behalf
of Coltin LeB lanc

Coltin LeB lanc 's son, now 3 years old.

State Police spokesman Lt. Nick Manale said the agency has launched an internal investigation to
determine whether Bezou will face discipline for possible policy violations. Manale said that
investigation is ongoing and the trooper has returned to regular duty in the meantime.

He said it's routine procedure for State Police to investigate shootings involving their own officers,
though the agency is often called to conduct those investigations for other agencies across the
state as well. Manale also said it's part of State Police duties to patrol highways throughout
Louisiana, not just interstates, so it's not unusual for a trooper to pull someone over on a city
street.

Bezou said in a taped interview with investigators four days after the shooting that LeBlanc
appeared intoxicated — his eyes "bloodshot and glassy" and his balance "very unsteady" — when
he stepped out of his truck. T he trooper said LeBlanc's body language could have been a sign that
he was going to "start some trouble." But Bezou said he came to that conclusion only in
retrospect. He added: "If I had more years in law enforcement, I might have been able to
recognize that as such."

T he trooper initiated the stop because LeBlanc had turned without using his blinker and failed to
come to a complete stop at a stop sign.

Bezou went on to detail the moments leading up to the shooting. Asked multiple times to describe
his reasoning when he grabbed onto LeBlanc's truck, Bezou said his intention was "to stop the
vehicle, to stop the driver, to stop him from killing somebody on the roadway — to prevent death
or serious bodily harm to the people around." He also said he would have been in the path of the

vehicle's rear tire if he hadn't jumped on.

T he trooper then found himself "holding on for dear life" with his "rear end about a foot off the
ground."

"I'm hollering at him (to) stop the car … and he ain't doing it," Bezou said. "I was in fear for my life,
so I pulled my firearm out and aimed it at him."

T he trooper said LeBlanc continued to accelerate and then tried to reach for the weapon, grabbing
Bezou's wrist — a detail that is not visible on the video footage. "It was at that point that I opened
fire on the suspect," Bezou said. "I fired I think six times and finally he stopped the vehicle."

What the footage does show is that the incident unfolded in rapid succession. About 10 seconds
passed between when LeBlanc placed his foot on the accelerator and when he was shot.

LeBlanc rolled out the door and into the road, at which point a bystander started rendering aid and
identified himself as a former U.S. Army medic. He continued talking to LeBlanc and holding
pressure to his wounds until medical crews arrived on the scene.

LeBlanc later died in the hospital. Bezou was not injured.

T he district attorney said the incident was "certainly a very tragic situation."

"But in the end, our analysis is whether or not we think the officer committed a crime, and clearly
we don't, based on the evidence and the investigation," Perrilloux said. "Like most of these police
shootings, they're split second decisions. Evaluating them in hindsight is always difficult, but I think
this case was clear."

Copyrig ht 2019, The Advocate / Capital City Press LLC, All Rights Reserved.

 

 
HAMMOND, La. (AP) - A Louisiana state trooper who fired six shots into a vehicle fleeing a traffic stop will not be

charged in the driver's death.  

Citing documents released Monday, The Advocate reports District Attorney Scott Perrilloux decided the September

shooting of 23-year-old Coltin LeBlanc was justified.  

Body camera video shows Trooper Andre Bezou grabbing the driver's doorframe as LeBlanc tries to drive off.

Prosecutors say Bezou would have been dragged or tossed if he hadn't opened fire.  

Sherry LeBlanc says Bezou put his own life in danger by grabbing on and didn't have the right to kill her son. An

attorney is planning to sue on behalf of Coltin LeBlanc's toddler.  

Lt. Nick Manale says State Police will determine whether Bezou will be disciplined for policy violations. He's

returned to regular duty.  

___  

Information from: The Advocate, http://theadvocate.com  

Credit: By ALANNA DURKIN RICHER and COLLIN BINKLEY, Associated Press 
 
 

Louisiana Police ID man trooper fatally shot in - Associated Press State
Wire: Louisiana (LA) - September 28, 2018
September 28, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Louisiana (LA)

HAMMOND, La. (AP) — Louisiana State Police have identified the person a trooper fatally shot
during a traffic stop.

Senior Trooper Dustin Dwight says in an email that 23-year-old Coltin Brennan Leblanc
man killed early Thursday in Hammond. Dwight tells news outlets Leblanc was shot when a
struggle ensued after the trooper had pulled him over.

Coltin Brennan Leblanc  was the

Police didn't say why the trooper stopped Leblanc. He was treated at the scene but died at a
hospital after being taken there in critical condition.

T he trooper wasn't injured and police have not provided their name.

Dwight says police are still investigating.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

Man killed in gunfire exchange with troopers - Kalamazoo Gazette (MI) -
January 26, 2018 - page A2
January 26, 2018 | Kalamazoo Gazette (MI) | Meagan Beck mbeck@mlive.com | Page A2

Michigan State Police have identified the man who was fatally shot Wednesday while troopers were
serving a search warrant.

T roopers from the state police Marshall post were executing the search warrant related to a cold
case about 11:15 a.m. in Branch County’s Union T ow n-ship when they came under fire by David
David
Kidney, 62, of Union City, according to a news release.
Kidney

An autopsy was conducted on Kidney on Thursday morning in Grand Rapids. Preliminary results
show Kidney’s cause of death to be a single gunshot wound sustained while exchanging gunfire
with troopers.

During the incident, officers were attempting to take cover when Detective Sgt. Aaron Steensma
was shot in the chest and Trooper Daniel T hayer was shot in the chest and hand.

Steensma, who has been with MSP 19 years, remains in serious but stable condition at Borgess
Medical Center in Kalamazoo.

T he round that struck T hayer in the chest was stopped by his protective vest. T hayer, who has
been with MSP 21 years, did not seek medical treatment.

T he search warrant was connected to an investigation into the 2009 shooting death of Duane
Finney. In March, the state police reopened the investigation into Finney’s death. He was found
shot to death in his car May 12, 2009.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Kalamazoo Gazette, All Rights Reserved.

 

 
Jan. 25--Two Michigan State Police officers -- including a Cassopolis native -- were shot Wednesday morning while

executing a search warrant related to a cold case investigation in Union Township in rural Branch County. 

The shooting occurred at approximately 11:15 a.m. at a residence on Francisco Road. When troopers announced

their presence prior to making entry into the residence, the suspect, 62-year-old David Kidney, leveled a long gun at

the officers. 

They were attempting to take cover when D/Sgt. Aaron Steensma, of the Marshall Post, was shot in the chest and

Trooper Daniel Thayer, also of the Marshall Post, received a grazing wound to the hand and chest. The round that

struck Thayer in the chest was stopped by his ballistic vest. 

All MSP personnel were wearing body armor at the time of the incident. It is unclear at this time why Steensma

was injured despite being armored. 

Steensma, a Cassopolis graduate with family in the area, was transported to the hospital, and was reported to be in

serious but stable condition, according to Director Col. Kriste Kibbey Etue. Thayer did not seek medical attention. 

"Thanks to the quick actions of troopers at the scene and the excellent medical attention he received from

ProMedica Coldwater Regional Hospital, West Michigan Air Care and the trauma team at Borgess Medical Center,

D/Sergeant Steensma is doing remarkably well for the seriousness of his injury," Etue said in a press release. 

The MSP Emergency Support Team responded, and confirmed that Kidney is deceased. 

As of Thursday morning, MSP Communications Representative Lori Dougovito reported that Steensma's condition

was unchanged and that he was still in serious but stable condition. 

An autopsy was conducted on Kidney Thursday morning in Grand Rapids, Michigan. The autopsy confirmed that

his death was caused by a single gunshot wound sustained while exchanging gun fire with trooper. 

The investigation is ongoing and Dougovito said she could not provide more information at this time. 
 
 


Detective had been at farmhouse before shooting - Kalamazoo Gazette
(MI) - January 28, 2018 - page A5
January 28, 2018 | Kalamazoo Gazette (MI) | Al Jones ajones5@mlive.com | Page A5

Michigan State Police said a detective who was shot while trying to serve a search warrant at a
farmhouse Wednesday in rural Branch County had been to that house before — without a
problem.

In addition, troopers have said they don’t know why the homeowner, identified as David Kidney
David Kidney,
62, opened fire on the detective and another trooper.

“It was readily apparent they were police officers,” Michigan State Police 1st Lt. Dale Hinz said of
the two troopers who knocked on Kidney’s door about 11:15 a.m. Wednesday. “T hey had police
markings and a search warrant for the residence. But Mr. Kidney decided that he was going to
meet them with a long gun.”

Hinz said state police Detective Sgt.Aaron Steensma previously had been to the house in the 500
block of Francisco Road in Union Township without incident.

He said offering a reason why the homeowner attacked “would be complete speculation by me.”

State police command officers have said Kidney grabbed a rifle after the officers knocked at the
door. Steensma and Trooper Daniel T hayer quickly took cover and called for help, but shots were
fired after Kidney came out of the house and then ran into a field.

Kidney died as a result of a single wound suffered during the exchange of gunfire with the
troopers. He was found in a field south of his residence.

Steensma suffered a gunshot wound to his upper chest, in the area of his collarbone. He was listed
in serious condition Friday at Borgess Medical Center after undergoing surgery Wednesday.

Police said although T hayer was struck in the center of his chest by a rifle shot, he was not
seriously injured. T he shot was deflected by a bulletproof vest he was wearing. He sustained a
shrapnel wound to one of his hands, troopers said.

T he officers went to Kidney’s house Wednesday to look for a gun registered to Kidney and to
collect a DNA sample. Referring to the gun, Detective 1st Lt. Chuck Christensen said, “It was
another investigative lead that detectives were following up on.”

LEAD DETECT IVE ON COLD CASE

A little more than a year ago, the state police Special Investigations Section began working with the
Branch County Sheriff’s Office to pool resources and try to solve the 2009 homicide of Duane

Finney, 62, of Coldwater.

Christensen, who oversees SIS, assigned Steensma to be lead detective in the case. It has received
the combined resources of the two police agencies and the attention of up to 26 officers, off and
on, since the investigation was reopened.

Finney was found shot to death behind the wheel of his car May 12, 2009. He was about a mile
from his home in Coldwater, but apparently had left home a few hours earlier, headed to work.

“We’re still actually trying to determine a motive on that,” Christensen said of the Finney homicide.
“T here was still nothing that presented a motive.”

Kidney was a former neighbor of Finney in Coldwater, officers confirmed.

T he weapon used in that incident was never recovered, Christensen said. While he said troopers
ultimately completed the search Steensma and T hayer tried to conduct at the farmhouse, he
would not say what they found or where things stand with that investigation.

Asked Thursday if he knew what caused Wednesday’s shootout near Union City, Christensen said,
“No, not at this point.”

Of Kidney, he said, “I think he had some circumstances going in his personal life that may have
caused some of this. But we’re still trying to determine what it was.”

Kidney suffered the loss of a few family members in the past few years, including the December
death of his wife of 26 years.

T he command officers said they did not know what Kidney did for a living or whether he was
retired.

Among things they did say:

› Kidney’s death does not put an end to the Finney homicide investigation. › Kidney’s teenage
grandson was in the farmhouse when the shooting incident began. Hinz said the teen, who was
estimated to be 18 or 19 years old and was described as disabled, apparently was asleep when the
incident started and was not involved in the incident.

› T hayer, whose hand wound did not require hospital treatment, will be on paid leave pending an
investigation of Wednesday’s shooting. Hinz said that is the case “anytime we have an officer-
involved shooting.”

› Wednesday’s incident will be investigated by detectives from the Michigan State Police’s Sixth
District, which is based in Rockford.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Kalamazoo Gazette, All Rights Reserved.

 
Gunman's identity confirmed in police shooting - Sturgis Journal (MI) -
January 26, 2018 - page A1
January 26, 2018 | Sturgis Journal (MI) | From staff reports | Page A1

Michigan State Police have identified the man who shot two troopers earlier this week.

Authorities identified the gunman as David Kidney

David Kidney, 62, of Union City.

Kidney fired at two state police officers Wednesday as they were serving a search warrant at a
home on Francisco Road in Union City.

Det. Sgt. Aaron Steensma was shot in the chest. Daniel T hayer was shot in the chest and hand.

T he shot to his chest was stopped by a ballistic vest.

Kidney fled into a wooded area and later was found dead. An autopsy conducted Thursday in Grand
Rapids showed Kidney died from a single gunshot wound sustained while exchanging gunfire with
troopers.

Steensma remains in serious, but stable, condition at Borgess Medical Center in Kalamazoo.

Copyrig ht 2018 Sturg is Journal. All Rights Reserved.

 

 
Jan. 26--UNION CITY -- The family of a Michigan State Police Trooper shot while serving a warrant has spoken out

to the community. 

The family of D/Sgt. Aaron Steensma expressed their thanks for the outpouring of support following the incident,

which occurred Wednesday morning while Steensma and another officer were executing a search warrant related

to a cold case investigation in Union Township in rural Branch County. 

The shooting occurred at approximately 11:15 a.m. at a residence on Francisco Road. When troopers announced

their presence prior to making entry into the residence, the suspect, 62-year-old David Kidney, leveled a long gun at

the officers. 

They were attempting to take cover when Steensma, of the Marshall Post, was shot in the chest and Trooper

Daniel Thayer, also of the Marshall Post, received a grazing wound to the hand and chest. The round that struck

Thayer in the chest was stopped by his ballistic vest. 

All MSP personnel were wearing body armor at the time of the incident. It is unclear at this time how Steensma

was injured despite being armored. 

Steensma, a Cassopolis graduate with family in the area, was transported to the hospital, and was reported to be in

serious but stable condition, according to Director Col. Kriste Kibbey Etue. Thayer did not seek medical attention. 

Members of Steensma's family delivered the following statement via email: 

"We would like to start off by saying thank you to everyone for your outpouring support," the statement read. "Not

only from the Michigan State Police and but also surrounding police, fire and EMS agencies as well as friends and

surrounding communities. We would like to give a special thanks to the personnel who helped take care of Aaron

on the scene and help get him to safety, as well as all of the medical personnel who have provided excellent

treatment and care for Aaron in his time of need. 

"Aaron is a family-oriented guy and very involved in the community. He loves being involved with his children at

their sporting events and he will be greatly missed while he continues to recover from this horrifying incident. It's

something we knew could happen at any time, but there is no way to prepare yourself for it when it does occur. He

loves his job and we are all very proud of his accomplishments while working with the Michigan State Police. 

"Please continue to keep Aaron and our family in your thoughts and prayers as well as all of the emergency

responders out protecting and serving." 

People may support Steensma by making a donation to the Michigan State Troopers Assistance Fund, and writing

"D/Sgt. Aaron Steensma" in the "Memory/Honor/Support of:" box on the form. Checks may also be mailed to 1715

Abbey Road, Suite B, East Lansing, MI 48823. 

"Thanks to the quick actions of troopers at the scene and the excellent medical attention he received from

ProMedica Coldwater Regional Hospital, West Michigan Air Care and the trauma team at Borgess Medical Center,

D/Sergeant Steensma is doing remarkably well for the seriousness of his injury," Etue said in a press release. 

The MSP Emergency Support Team responded, and confirmed that Kidney is deceased. 

As of Thursday morning, MSP Communications Representative Lori Dougovito reported that Steensma's condition

was unchanged and that he was still in serious but stable condition. 

An autopsy was conducted on Kidney Friday morning in Grand Rapids, Michigan. The autopsy confirmed that his

death was caused by a single gunshot wound sustained while exchanging gun fire with trooper. 

The investigation is ongoing and Dougovito said she could not provide more information at this time. 

CREDIT: By Sarah Culton 
 
 


 
April 10--MARSHALL, Mich. Michigan State Police say a man killed in a shootout with police in early 2018 was

likely the man who shot and killed a Coldwater man in 2009. 

Det. Lt. Chuck Christensen announced at a press conference Wednesday morning that David Kidney, 62, was the

likely killer of Duane Finney in 2009. 

Kidney, of Union City, was killed in a shootout with Michigan State Police in January 2018. Two Michigan State

Police troopers were wounded in the shootout, including one, D/Sgt. Aaron Steensma, who was shot in the chest. 

The Branch County Sheriff had turned over the case of Finney to Michigan State Police in 2017 and had begun

interviewing Kidney in the case. Kidney told police that he and Finney had been in a dispute since 2007. Kidney

admitted to owning weapons, including a handgun that he was not able to locate. Police were later able to locate

the gun and match it to evidence from the 2009 crime scene. 

Because Kidney has died, police say the cold case is now closed, but the investigation will remain open if there is

any other information that people still have regarding the murder. 

D/Sgt. Steensma was also at the press conference and said that his injuries caused him to have to retired from

MSP. He says he is still undergoing therapy, full time. 

Well have more details when they become available. 
 
 

Wounded officer remains in ICU - Sturgis Journal (MI) - January 27, 2018 -
page A3
January 27, 2018 | Sturgis Journal (MI) | Corky Emrick | Page A3

A Michigan State Police officer who was shot Wednesday remains hospitalized and is in serious, but
stable, condition.

Det./Sgt. Aaron Steensma is in the intensive care unit at Borgess Medical Center in Kalamazoo, but
is improving, said Lt. James Coleman, commander at the state police post in Marshall.

"He is able to communicate with people," Coleman said.

Steensma and trooper Dan T hayer were shot Wednesday by 62-yearold David Kidney
executed a search warrant at a home on Francisco Road in Branch County.

David Kidney as they

Officers were investigating the 2009 cold case murder of Duane Finney.

T hey had obtained a search warrant to collect a DNA sample from Kidney and to search the home.
T hey were looking for a 9-mm handgun.

T roopers contacted Kidney about 10 a.m., Coleman said. Kidney pointed a shotgun at the officers
as they were talking to him.

T he officers took cover, set up a perimeter and the state police emergency support team was
called in to assist. Before the team arrived, Kidney exited the home and began firing at police with a
semi-automatic rifle. He also had a handgun.

Kidney circled the outside of the home, headed for a shed, then shot Steensma. He hid in a
wooded tree line, police said.

As troopers were getting Steensma to safety, placing him in a police vehicle, Kidney opened fire
again, striking T hayer in the chest and hand.

T roopers returned fire, killing Kidney.

An autopsy revealed Kidney was shot once.

Steensma was taken to a Coldwater hospital by police vehicle, then airlifted to Kalamazoo.

Coleman said Steensma has a shattered clavicle, two broken ribs, a lung injury and some nerve
damage.

T hayer was treated and released. Shots that struck him were deflected by body armor.

"T hat plate in the vest saved Dan's life," Coleman said.

Steensma was struck above his vest.

Investigation into the Finney homicide continues, Coleman said.

Copyrig ht 2018 Sturg is Journal. All Rights Reserved.

 
Family of wounded detective thanks community for - Kalamazoo
Gazette (MI) - January 28, 2018 - page A5
January 28, 2018 | Kalamazoo Gazette (MI) | Al Jones ajones5@mlive.com | Page A5

T he family of a Michigan State Police detective who was shot in the line of duty Wednesday said
they have received a lot of support from the community, and they are grateful.

In a statement, they said the officer, Detective Sgt. Aaron Steensma, loves his job, and they
appreciate the community’s response to what was a “horrible” shooting incident.

“We would like to start off by saying ‘T hank you’ to everyone for your outpouring of support, not
only from the Michigan State Police but also from surrounding police, fire and EMS agencies, as
well as friends and surrounding communities,” the family said. T heir written statement was
released Thursday by state police.

“We would like to give a special thanks to the personnel who helped take care of Aaron on the
scene and help get him to safety, as well as all of the medical personnel who have provided
excellent treatment and care for Aaron in his time of need.”

Steensma and Trooper Daniel T hayer were shot as they attempted to serve a search warrant
Wednesday at a house on Francisco Road just south of Union City.

T he owner of the house, identified as David Kidney
knocked at his door, police said. Kidney apparently died as a result of a wound he suffered during
the exchange of gunfire. He was found in a field south of the residence.

David Kidney, 62, produced a rifle after the officers

Here is the remainder of the Steensma family’s statement:

“Aaron is a family-oriented guy and very involved in the community. He loves being involved with
his children at their sporting events, and he will be greatly missed while he continues to recover
from this horrifying incident. It’s something we knew could happen at any time, but there is no way
to prepare yourself for it when it does occur. He loves his job, and we are all very proud of his
accomplishments while working with the Michigan State Police. Please continue to keep Aaron and
our family in your thoughts and prayers, as well as all of the emergency responders out protecting
and serving.”

Friends of the family at the state police have arranged for donations to be made online. T hose
interested in making a contribution may do so at mspta.net/mstaf/donations.

T hose wanting to donate are asked to put “Detective Sgt. Aaron Steensma” in the in
memory/honor and support of box.

Checks can be mailed to: 1715 Abbey Road, Suite B, East Lansing, MI 48823.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Kalamazoo Gazette, All Rights Reserved.

 
Victim's widow: Suspect's shoot-out death with MSP - Coldwater Daily
Reporter (MI) - January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | Coldwater Daily Reporter (MI) | Don Reid

COLDWAT ER — "Duane did not get justice," Crystal Finney said of her husband, Duane Finney, who
was murdered on May 12, 2009. "Justice is what is important, not closure."

Her statement comes a day after David Byron Kidney
troopers as they served a search warrant on him at his home at 595 Francisco Road, just east of
Arbogast Road in Union City. Kidney was found dead in a fence row on the property he rented. An
autopsy was conducted on Kidney Thursday morning in Grand Rapids.

David Byron Kidney, 62, shot two Michigan State Police

MSP released a statement saying, "T he preliminary results show Kidney's cause of death to be a
single gunshot wound that was sustained while exchanging gunfire with troopers."

On T hursday, MSP reported that officers were attempting to take cover when MSP Det./ Sgt.
Aaron Steensma was shot in the chest and MSP T pr. Daniel T hayer was shot in the chest and
hand.

T he round that struck T hayer in the chest was stopped by his ballistic vest. T he round that hit
Steensma struck him just above his solid vest at the collar bone.

Steensma remains in serious but stable condition at Borgess Medical Center in Kalamazoo
following surgery.

All MSP personnel were wearing body armor at the time of the incident.

"No further details are available for release at this time, as the investigation is still ongoing," MSP
officials stated.

Steensma, along with MSP Det./Sgt Heather Lass, were lead investigators in the cold case murder
of Finney. A search warrant was issued this week for DNA and a gun owned by Kidney.

When she was made aware of reports of the shooting on Wednesday, Crystal Finney said, "I knew
it was David. I knew he had moved out there."

Kidney had lived with his wife, Pamela, 860 E. Garfield Ave., Lot 16, next door to the Finneys.

Finney said that until the murder, the families had not communicated much, although she added
that Kidney blamed the Finneys after the landlord cut down a tree limb between trailers.

Finney also said Kidney was upset because they had called police on Kidney's grandchildren.

Finney said she had no idea why anyone would have wanted to kill Duane.

T he body of 62-yearold Duane Finney was found in the driver's seat of his2006 white Pontiac
Grand Prix in a field south of the Skate Ranch on South Angola Road in Coldwater. T here was a
bullet hole visible in the window, but it appeared the shot had come from inside the car, from the
back seat.

Duane had left for work as usual around 4:30 a.m. that Tuesday in 2009. Around 7:30 a.m., his
body was discovered after a resident near the Skate Ranch called 911 to report the suspicious
white car in the field half a mile west of the Finney family trailer off Garfield Road. T he southbound
car appeared to have swerved from the northbound lane, jump a small curb, then make a "S"
shaped path 500 feet across the field.

T he Grand Prix crossed a ditch and came to rest next to a marshy area.

During the investigation, it was noted that the location would not have been on his usual route to
work in Litchfield.

None of the fingerprints found in the car were conclusive. Some DNA evidence was collected from
the scene, but did not match any in data bases.

Kidney had only one prior criminal conviction. In 1994, a Branch County Circuit Court jury found him
guilty of receiving stolen property. Charges of breaking and entering were dismissed, and charges
against his wife were dropped.

T he conviction came before Michigan began collecting DNA of convicted felons, so Finney had
none on record.

Crystal Finney said she does not know what led the investigators to obtain the search warrant.

"T here are many things they just don't, just can't tell me," she said, adding that she has kept in
close contact with the officers since the cold case investigation began in March 2017.

She said that she and Branch County Sheriff's Office Det./Sgt. Dan Nichols talk on a monthly basis.
Nichols was the original investigator in the case.

Kidney had lived at the trailer park on Garfield Road until he divorced his wife in 2014 and moved to
Union T ownship. Pamela Kidney died on Dec. 4, 2017.

T he couple's daughter, Pamela Kidney Hoard Hankins, died one month earlier.

Copyrig ht 2018 Coldwater Daily Reporter. All Rights Reserved.

 
Police ‘confident’ they found cold case killer - Kalamazoo Gazette (MI) -
April 14, 2019 - page 018
April 14, 2019 | Kalamazoo Gazette (MI) | Mark Tower mtower@mlive.com | Page 018

Almost a decade after Duane Finney was found shot to death behind the wheel of his car, about a
mile from his home in Coldwater, police investigating the cold case say they are “highly confident”
they have identified his killer.

Ballistic tests confirmed a handgun belonging to David Kidney
David Kidney, 62, matched evidence found at
the scene of the May 2009 shooting, Michigan State Police Detective 1st Lt. Chuck Christensen
said Wednesday.

T he gun, a Beretta 9 mm, was seized after a confrontation between Kidney and police when they
attempted to serve a search warrant at his rural Branch County farmhouse in January 2018. Kidney
opened fire, wounding Michigan State Police Detective Sgt. Aaron Steensma and another trooper.
Officers shot and killed Kidney.

Christensen said casings and bullets from the scene of the killing, a field near Skate Ranch on North
Angola Road, “conclusively matched” those from tests conducted on Kidney’s gun. T he results of
additional interviews and investigative subpoenas conducted by a cold case team, called when the
case was reopened in 2017, further confirmed that conclusion, he said.

A trail goes cold

Finney, 62, was found shot to death in his car May 12, 2009.

T he Branch County Sheriff’s Office initially investigated the killing, but the trail went cold.

A cold case team, consisting of Michigan State Police and Branch County Sheriff’s Office personell,
was formed and began its work in April 2017, Christensen said. T he team interviewed 292 people
and looked back at all the details of the case, he said.

Kidney, a former neighbor of Finney’s, initially was interviewed in 2014 by the sheriff’s detective
investigating the case. Cold case team detectives interviewed Kidney again Sept. 15, 2017,
Christensen said, and the man told police he owned several guns in 2009, including a Beretta 9 mm
Luger handgun. Kidney later told police he could not find the weapon, and subsequent attempts to
contact the man were unsuccessful, Christensen said.

Police obtained a search warrant to search Kidney’s home, which led to the exchange of gunfire
when officers arrived there Jan. 24, 2018, he said. MSP Detective Sgt. Aaron Steensma and
T rooper Daniel T hayer were struck by bullets fired by Kidney.

Steensma suffered a gunshot wound to his upper chest, in the area of his collarbone. Although

T hayer was struck in the center of his chest by one rifle shot, he was not seriously injured. T he shot
was deflected by the bulletproof vest he was wearing, police said.

Kidney died as a result of a single wound suffered in the exchange of gunfire with troopers. He was
found in a field just south of his residence. Officers found the 9 mm Beretta in a shoulder holster
Kidney was wearing at the time of the gunfight, Christensen said Wednesday.

“He kept the weapon for that many years after he did the murder with it, which is somewhat
amazing,” Christensen said. “It would have been a lot more difficult to prove the case against him
without the weapon.”

Although there were other persons of interest in Finney’s killing, Christensen said all others were
eliminated in the course of the cold case investigation.

He said the case will remain open, per Michigan State Police policy, but that investigators are
confident Kidney was the person who shot and killed Finney in 2009. As a result, the cold case team
will stop actively working the case, Christensen said. Anyone with additional information on the
case still may contact Michigan State Police.

“T he case is still going to remain open, and we will take any information and follow up on any
additional leads that the public would provide,” Christensen said.

Copyrig ht, 2019, Kalamazoo Gazette, All Rights Reserved.

 

 
Feb. 01--CASSOPOLIS -- Friday evening, on the Ross Beatty Jr./Sr. High basketball court, Cassopolis native and

community service trooper with the Niles Michigan State Police post Jesse Binns stood in front of the crowd and

thanked them for supporting his brother-in-law. 

"I'm sure you've all seen the news to know that one of our troopers was shot just a couple days ago," Binns said.

"Not only is he a brother in blue, but he is a brother at home. He is a close family member. If you don't know,

tonight, everybody that is here, your proceeds are going to help my brother." 

A video of Binns' speech has been viewed more than 32,000 times and shared nearly 500 times, with the

comments section flooding with support for Binns' brother-in-law Aaron Steensma, who was injured in a shooting

last Wednesday. 

MSP troopers Steensma, of Cassopolis, and Daniel Thayer were involved in a shooting which occurred the morning

of Jan. 24 while they were executing a search warrant related to a cold case investigation in Union Township in

rural Branch County. When troopers announced their presence prior to making entry into the residence, the

suspect, 62-year-old David Kidney, leveled a long gun at the officers. 

During the shooting Steensma, of the Marshall Post, was shot in the chest and Thayer, also of the Marshall Post,

received a grazing wound to the hand and chest. The round that struck Thayer in the chest was stopped by his

ballistic vest. 

Steensma, a Cassopolis graduate with children in the Cassopolis Public School system, was transported to the

hospital, and was reported to be in serious but stable condition, according to Director Col. Kriste Kibbey Etue. 

Steensma is reportedly improving and doing "remarkably well for the seriousness of his injury," according to a

press release issued by Etue. 

Since the incident, the Cassopolis community has come together to support Steensma and his family from

supporting Facebook posts to monetary donations to help cover his medical costs. 

Most recently, CPS donated all the proceeds from Friday's home basketball game to Steensma and his family,

totaling more than $1,200. 

"We want to lend a helping hand and let [Steensma] know that we appreciate his service," said CPS Superintendent

Angela Piazza. "His kids go to our schools. We wanted to make sure that they knew that they had our support and

the community's support as much as we can." 

The Cassopolis Police Department has also shown its support for the fellow officers who were injured last week.

Members of the department put together a card for Steensma, which was hand delivered to him in the hospital by

Police Chief Brian LaValle. 

Michigan in the 1990s. 

The shooting hit close to home for LaValle, as he worked with both Steensma and Thayer at a post in White Pigeon,

LaValle said that officer shootings like this are difficult for him as a police chief, because he knows that something

similar could happen to him or one of his officers. 

"It's not something you ever really prepare for," LaValle said. "People think of things like this as something that only

big city cops need to worry about, but this happened in a rural area, and it is happening more and more. We have to

keep a tactical mindset and know that something like this could happen at any time." 

Though LaValle said that officer shootings are something that he always has to keep on his mind, he said that he

is heartened by the way the community has rallied around Steensma and supported officers in the aftermath of the

shooting. 

"It's very humbling to have a community that is so supportive. In my 10 years or so of being here, Cassopolis has

shown tremendous support for their local officers, whether they are state, local or county," LaValle said. "We are

are all thinking of Aaron. He seems to be doing well, and we are all very happy about that." 

People may support Steensma by making a donation to the Michigan State Troopers Assistance Fund, and writing

"D/Sgt. Aaron Steensma" in the "Memory/Honor/Support of:" box on the form. Checks may also be mailed to 1715

Abbey Road, Suite B, East Lansing, MI 48823. 

Binns is also selling stickers in support of Steensma that can be purchased by contacting Binns at (269) 683-4411. 

CREDIT: By Sarah Culton 
 
 


 
MARSHALL - A Michigan State Police detective remains in the hospital after he was shot in rural Branch County on

Wednesday. 

Detective Sgt. Aaron Steensma, assigned to the Coldwater detachment, was shot in the shoulder and remains

heavily sedated, according to Lt. James Coleman, Marshall post commander. 

A bullet shattered his clavicle and a couple of ribs, Coleman said. He also suffered trauma to his lung and possible

nerve damage and remains in serious condition. 

"He is out of the woods as far as life threatening but we are not sure what the lasting effects from the injuries will

occur," Coleman said. "They are going to keep him asleep three or four days." 

Trooper Daniel Thayer was treated for an injury to the tip of a finger, Coleman said. 

Both officers were shot when they and four others —a sergeant, detective and two other troopers —went to the

home of 62-year-old David Kidney at 595 Francisco Road off of Arbogast Road in Branch County's Union Township. 

Coleman said the officers were serving a search warrant as part of an investigation of the March 12, 2009,

homicide of Duane Finney. 

Finney was found shot and killed in his car on North Angola Road in Coldwater. 

Coleman said the investigators had a tip that Kidney might be involved in the homicide and had talked with him a

few days earlier. 

They returned Wednesday with the search warrant seeking DNA from Kidney because they had collected both DNA

and a 9 mm bullet at the scene of the shooting and knew Kidney had a 9 mm handgun. 

"About 10 a.m. they made contact," Coleman said. "They knocked on the door and he opened the door. They were

trying to talk their way in and at some point when they were talking he grabbed a shotgun and leveled it at them." 

The troopers retreated and took some cover and spent more than an hour waiting after calling for the department's

Emergency Support (SWAT) Team. 

out shooting," Coleman said. 

"And hour goes by and they are still on the perimeter and he comes out of the house with a long gun and he comes

Troopers said Kidney was armed with a .223 caliber Mini 14 semi-automatic rifle and a 9 mm handgun. He was

firing the rifle but investigators are not sure if he fired the handgun. 

The shooting was about 11:20 a.m. and Steensma was wounded. Shots were fired for five or six seconds and

Kidney then went back into a treeline between the house and a corn field. 

Troopers were eventually able to put Steensma in a patrol car and take him to ProMedica Coldwater Regional

Hospital where he was then flown by West Michigan Air Care to Borgess Medical Center in Kalamazoo. 

As they were moving Steensma, Coleman said Kidney began firing again from the trees and was shot and killed by

one of the troopers. An autopsy determined he was shot once. 

Coleman said investigators are still trying to determine how many times each of the officers were hit but that

Thayer was struck in the chest and protected by his body armor while Steensma was hit above his vest. 

Investigators from the Sixth District, headquartered in Rockford, are compiling a report on the shooting. Thayer is

on administrative leave, a routine practice after a shooting. 

Coleman said investigators will try to determine if Kidney was involved in the Finney homicide. 

Contact Trace Christenson at 269-966-0685 or tchrist@battlecreekenquirer.com. Follow him on Twitter:

@TSChristenson 
 
 


 
UNION TOWNSHIP, Mich. (AP) - Michigan State Police have identified the man who was killed in a gunfight that

also left two troopers injured. 

Police say preliminary results from an autopsy Thursday showed 62-year-old David Kidney of Union City died of a

single gunshot wound sustained while exchanging gunfire with troopers. 

Detective Sgt. Aaron Steensma and Trooper Daniel Thayer were executing a search warrant when they were shot

Wednesday morning in Union Township, south of Battle Creek. Steensma was struck in the chest and remained in

serious but stable condition Thursday at a hospital. Thayer suffered a grazing would to his hand but his ballistic

vest stopped a slug that struck his chest. 

Police say the two troopers were trying to take cover when Kidney shot them. The warrant was from a cold case

investigation. 

Credit: Associated Press 
 
 

Suspect who shot at troopers identified - Hillsdale Daily News, The (MI)
- January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | Hillsdale Daily News, The (MI) | The Hillsdale Daily News

UNION CIT Y — After completing an autopsy on Thursday the Michigan State Police (MSP) has
identified the suspect in Wednesday's shooting of two MSP troopers, as 62-year-old David
David
Kidney of Union City.
Kidney

At approximately 11:15 a.m. Wednesday personnel from the MSP Marshall Post were executing a
search warrant related to a cold case investigation at 595 Francisco Road in Union City when they
came under fire from Kidney.

D/Sgt. Aaron Steensma was shot in the chest and remains in serious but stable condition at
Borgess Medical Center in Kalamazoo. Trooper Daniel T hayer was also shot in the chest and hand
during the exchange of fire.

T he round that struck T hayer in the chest was stopped by his ballistic vest. T hayer was released
from ProMedica Coldwater Regional Hospital on Wednesday afternoon.

Autopsy results show that Kidney's cause of death was a single gunshot wound that was sustained
while exchanging gunfire with troopers.

No further details were released on Thursday and the investigation into the shooting and the cold
case continues.

T he cold case centers around the murder of Duane Finney, of Coldwater on May 12, 2009. Finney.
Finney and Kidney were neighbors at the time.

Copyrig ht, 2018 Hillsdale Daily News, The (MI). All Rights Reserved.

 
Cold case closed: Police say Kidney was killer - - Sturgis Journal (MI) -
April 12, 2019 - page 4
April 12, 2019 | Sturgis Journal (MI) | Don Reid | Page 4

At this point, investigators are highly confident David Kidney

David Kidney murdered Duane Finney.

T hat was the statement Wednesday from Fifth District Det/Lt. Chuck Christensen at a news
conference in Marshall.

Michigan State Police and the Branch County sheriff have ended the cold case investigation into
the May 12, 2009, murder. T he case was reopened two years ago.

T he conclusion came after Kidney, then 61, died in a shoot out with troopers at his Francisco Road
home on Jan. 24, 2017.

As troopers moved to enter the house, Kidney came out firing. Two troopers were shot and
rushed to the hospital. T here was a stand-off until it was determined Kidney was dead behind a row
of trees away from the house.

A Beretta 9mm Luger handgun was taken from a holster on Kidney's body, authorities said. T he
MSP laboratory matched the bullets and casings found at Finney's murder scene to that gun.

Kidney was only one person of interest, Christensen said, "but the others had been eliminated."

During a September 2017 interview, Kidney was cordial and cooperative with lead investigators
Det/Sgt. Heather Lass and Det/Sgt. Aaron Steensma. He said in May 2009, he owned assorted
guns, including a Beretta 9mm handgun.

T wo days after this meeting, Kidney contacted Steensma and told him he was unable to locate two
of his weapons, a

.22-caliber long gun and 9mm handgun.

Kidney then refused to answer calls from troopers. T hat prompted investigators in January to
request a search warrant for the gun and his DNA.

Kidney had one criminal conviction. A Branch County Circuit Court jury found him guilty in 1994 of
receiving stolen property. T he conviction came before Michigan began collecting DNA of convicted
felons, so he had none on record.

Christensen said there was animosity between the former neighbors.

Kidney had lived with his wife, Pamela, at 860 E. Garfield Ave., lot 16, next door to the Finneys.

Finney's widow, Crystal, said in 2017, Kidney blamed them after the landlord cut down a tree limb
between trailers. Crystal Finney said Kidney was upset because they had called police on Kidney's
grandkids for kicking a soccer ball into the trailer.

Christensen said he believed Kidney waited in Finney's car for him to go to work that morning in
2009.

T he body of 62-year old Finney was found in the driver's seat of his car in a field south of Skate
Ranch on South Angola Road. T here was a bullet hole visible in the window. It appeared the shot
had come from inside the car from the back seat.

Finney had left for work around 4:30 a.m. Around 7:30 a.m., his body was discovered after a
resident near Skate Ranch called 911 to report the suspicious white car in the field.

Christensen said cold cases are important.

"You have a murderer out there. If they did it once, they could do it again," he said. "You don't want
them out there."

T he case also was important to Christensen because of the two troopers shot. He had assigned
Steensma to the case.

"A lot of bad things happened to good people in this case," Christensen said. "But in the end, we
know Kidney was the individual who killed Mr. Finney. T hat provides closure for everybody here."

Steensma is retiring after 21 years because of permanent injuries from the shooting. T he other
officer shot, trooper Dan T hayer, has returned to duty.

"T he investigation will remain open due to MSP protocol, but the cold case investigators will no
longer actively work this incident," Christensen said.

T hrough the course of the investigation, officers interviewed 292 individuals and used investigative
subpoenas in conjunction with the Branch County prosecutor's office to force testimony under
oath.

Copyrig ht 2019 Sturg is Journal. All Rights Reserved.

 
STATE POLICE IDENTIFY SUSPECT IN TROOPER SHOOTING - US Fed
News (USA) - January 25, 2018
January 25, 2018 | US Fed News (USA)

LANSING, Mich., Jan. 25 -- T he Michigan State Police issued the following news release:

T he Michigan State Police (MSP) has identified the suspect in yesterday's shooting of two MSP
troopers, as 62-year-old David Kidney

David Kidney of Union City, Mich.

At approximately 11:15 a.m. on Jan. 24, personnel from the MSP Marshall Post were executing a
search warrant related to a cold case investigation at 595 Francisco Road in Union City when they
came under fire from Kidney. T he officers were attempting to take cover when D/Sgt. Aaron
Steensma was shot in the chest and T pr. Daniel T hayer was shot in the chest and hand. T he round
that struck T hayer in the chest was stopped by his ballistic vest. All MSP personnel were wearing
body armor at the time of the incident.

An autopsy was conducted on Kidney this morning in Grand Rapids. T he preliminary results show
Kidney's cause of death to be a single gunshot wound that was sustained while exchanging gunfire
with troopers.

Steensma remains in serious but stable condition today at Borgess Medical Center in Kalamazoo.

No further details are available for release at this time, as the investigation is still ongoing.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
content.services@htlive.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 US Fed News, via HT Dig ital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved.

 
Police close 2009 cold case - Coldwater Daily Reporter (MI) - April 10,
2019
April 10, 2019 | Coldwater Daily Reporter (MI) | Don Reid dwreid@aol.com

"At this point, investigators are highly confident David Kidney
the statement Wednesday from Fifth District Det/Lt. Chuck Christensen at a news conference in
Marshall.

David Kidney murdered Duane Finney." T hat was

Michigan State Police and the Branch County sheriff have ended the cold case investigation into
the May 12, 2009, murder. T he case was reopened two years ago.

T he conclusion came after Kidney, then 61, died in a shoot out with troopers at his Francisco Road
home on Jan. 24, 2017. As troopers moved to enter the house, Kidney came out firing. T wo
troopers were shot and rushed to the hospital.

T here was a stand-off until it was determined Kidney was dead behind a row of trees away from
the house. A Beretta 9mm Luger handgun was taken from a holster on Kidney's body, authorities
said. T he MSP laboratory matched the bullets and casings found at Finney's murder scene to that
gun. Kidney was only one person of interest, Christensen said, "but the others had been
eliminated."

During a September 2017 interview, Kidney was cordial and cooperative with lead investigators
Det/Sgt. Heather Lass and Det/Sgt. Aaron Steensma. He said in May 2009, he owned assorted
guns, including a Beretta 9mm handgun.

T wo days after this meeting, Kidney contacted Steensma and told him he was unable to locate two
of his weapons, a .22-caliber long gun and 9mm handgun. Kidney then refused to answer calls
from troopers.

T hat prompted investigators in January to request a search warrant for the gun and his DNA.
Kidney had one criminal conviction. A Branch County Circuit Court jury found him guilty in 1994 of
receiving stolen property.

T he conviction came before Michigan began collecting DNA of convicted felons, so he had none
on record. Christensen said there was animosity between the former neighbors. Kidney had lived
with his wife, Pamela, at 860 E. Garfield Ave. Lot 16, next door to the Finneys.

Finney's widow, Crystal, said in 2017, Kidney blamed them after the landlord cut down a tree limb
between trailers. Crystal Finney said Kidney was upset because they had called police on Kidney's
grandkids for kicking a soccer ball into the trailer.

Christensen said he believed Kidney waited in Finney's car for him to go to work that morning in
2009. T he body of 62-year old Finney was found in the driver's seat of his car in a field south of

Skate Ranch on South Angola Road.

T here was a bullet hole visible in the window.

It appeared the shot had come from inside the car from the back seat. Finney had left for work
around 4:30 a.m.

Around 7:30 a.m., his body was discovered after a resident near Skate Ranch called 911 to report
the suspicious white car in the field. Christensen said cold cases are important.

"You have a murderer out there. If they did it once, they could do it again," he said. "You don't want
them out there."

T he case also was important to Christensen because of the two troopers shot. He had assigned
Steensma to the case.

"A lot of bad things happened to good people in this case," Christensen said. "But in the end, we
know Kidney was the individual who killed Mr. Finney. T hat provides closure for everybody here."

Steensma is retiring after 21 years because of his permanent injuries from the shooting. T he other
officer shot, trooper Dan T hayer, has returned to duty.

"T he investigation will remain open due to MSP protocol, but the cold case investigators will no
longer actively work this incident," Christensen said.

Asked about a possible second person in the car, Christensen said "there is some evidence in that
vehicle in the form of some voiding that we have checked into. And conducted interviews. At this
point we have no information to suggest another person was involved."

But, he added, "if anyone has any information, the case will remain open."

Det.Sgt. Carey Casperson, of the MSP Fifth District Headquarters, and Detective Dan Nichols,
from the Branch County Sheriff Office, also headed the cold case team with Lass and Steensma.

Christensen said, "At certain times during this investigation we utilized 15 different detectives from
our entire 5th District Special Investigation Section."

T hrough the course of the investigation, officers interviewed 292 individuals and used investigative
subpoenas in conjunction with the Branch County prosecutor's office to force testimony under
oath.

Copyrig ht 2019 Coldwater Daily Reporter. All Rights Reserved.

 
Man killed in gunfight with Michigan troopers - Associated Press State
Wire: Michigan (MI) - January 25, 2018
January 25, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Michigan (MI)

UNION T OWNSHIP, Mich. (AP) — Michigan State Police have identified the man who was killed in a
gunfight that also left two troopers injured.

Police say preliminary results from an autopsy Thursday showed 62-year-old David Kidney
Union City died of a single gunshot wound sustained while exchanging gunfire with troopers.

David Kidney of

Detective Sgt. Aaron Steensma and Trooper Daniel T hayer were executing a search warrant when
they were shot Wednesday morning in Union T ownship, south of Battle Creek. Steensma was
struck in the chest and remained in serious but stable condition Thursday at a hospital. T hayer
suffered a grazing would to his hand but his ballistic vest stopped a slug that struck his chest.

Police say the two troopers were trying to take cover when Kidney shot them. T he warrant was
from a cold case investigation.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 


Dunwoody police shoot suspect - Dunwoody Crier, The (GA) - January
23, 2018
January 23, 2018 | Dunwoody Crier, The (GA) | Dick Williams and Sue Stanton For The Crier

UPDAT E: Dunwoody police said Monday the responsibility for naming the officer rested with the
Georgia Bureau of Investigation. Under state law the GBI now investigates all officer-involved
shootings.

But Chief Billy Grogan changed his mind Tuesday and identified the officer as Jared Bradley, 38, a
four-year veteran of the force who came to Dunwoody from the Gwinnett County police.

A fatal shooting in a Dunwoody shopping center parking lot Saturday morning is raising questions
about police public information procedures.

At deadline, T he Crier has learned that the victim, Jason Lappe
attended the Marist School as well as Chattahoochee and Milton high schools.

Jason Lappe, 44, has local ties. He once

T he shooting occurred just before 8 a.m. in the parking lot in front of the Dollar Tree store in the
Winter Village Shopping Center on Winters Chapel Road.

Police were advised that a suspect in an armed robbery at a Johns Creek Kroger on Holcomb
Bridge had arrived at the shopping center's parking lot. A witness to the Kroger robbery followed
the suspect to the Dunwoody location, where Dunwoody and Johns Creek police confronted the
suspect.

According to Dunwoody police, the suspect refused to comply with verbal commands and exited
his vehicle.

Officers rendered first aid until EMS arrived. T he suspect was transported to Grady Hospital where
he died. Per police department procedures, the officer who shot the suspect was placed on paid
administrative leave.

On social media sites, many expressed concern for the police officer and the man who died. Others
didn't have much sympathy for the suspect. Several who posted to the DPD Facebook page
thanked officers for protecting citizens.

On Nextdoor.com, the theme was largely the same, but one poster suggested that police officers
should use stun guns to disable suspects.

Others were quick to defend the officers' actions against an armed suspect in a neighborhood
shopping center including a poster who witnessed the police arriving and who heard the gunshot.

"If an officer has drawn his firearm and issued an order, you'd better comply or assume the worst

will happen," he wrote.

Dunwoody resident Jana Keeler wrote that an officer had to make the most difficult decision
required in doing his job. T herefore, a life was lost and several others, including the officers',
forever changed, Keeler wrote as she offered prayers for all involved including the suspect.

"Life will never be the same for them," Keeler wrote. "May they find a new normalcy."

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Dunwoody Crier, All Rights Reserved.

 

 
Feb. 15--A man shot and killed by police in Dunwoody last month was responsible for many metro area robberies,

including a Subway restaurant in Cherokee County, police said. 

Officials linked Jason Lappe to the New Year's Day robbery in Woodstock, police spokeswoman Brittany Page said

The 44-year-old used a semiautomatic handgun to rob the Subway restaurant in the 12000 block of Highway 92 in

Lappe allegedly broke into a register at a Kroger on Holcomb Bridge Road in Johns Creek on Jan. 22, The Atlanta

Journal-Constitution previously reported. 

A witness followed him to a shopping center parking lot in the 5000 block of Winters Chapel Road, where

Dunwoody and Johns Creek police identified him as the robbery suspect, Dunwoody police Sgt. Robert Parsons

"When confronted by officers, the suspect did not comply with their verbal commands and exited the vehicle,"

Parsons said. "Fearing for his safety and the safety of others, an officer fired one shot, striking the suspect." 

Lappe was taken to Grady Memorial Hospital, where he died. 

Thursday. 

Woodstock, Page said. 

said. 

CREDIT: By Ellen Eldridge 
 
 


 
 

Enlarge this image. 

had problems he couldn’t overcome. 

The father of a man who died after being shot by a police officer in DeKalb County said his son was talented but

Jim Lappe said son, Jason Lappe, 44, was on a troubled path due to drug use, Channel 2 Action News reported. 

“He had a drug problem,” Jim Lappe said, “was a drug addict and this has been going on for years.” 

Jason Lappe was shot by a Dunwoody officer Saturday after he robbed a Kroger in Johns Creek and then drove to

a shopping center on Winters Chapel Road, police said. 

MORE: Armed robbery suspect fatally shot by Dunwoody police ID’d 

Johns Creek police said surveillance video from the Kroger shows Lappe using a fake beard and a BB gun to rob

A witness called police and followed Lappe for miles. Dunwoody police intercepted him in the parking lot. 

According to the GBI, the officer fired after Jason Lappe didn’t follow police commands and exited his car. He later

the store. 

died at Grady Memorial Hospital. 

the officer who killed him." 

“This tragedy, we believe, was a police-assisted suicide on his part,” Jim Lappe said. “We hold no grudge against

The father said Jason Lappe had been in and out of prison and rehab for years, describing him as “conflicted.” 

“He had no intention of hurting anybody,” Jim Lappe said, “but he couldn’t cope any longer.” 

Credit: Steve Burns, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution 
 
 


 
Jan. 22--A man fatally shot by Dunwoody police Saturday was a suspect in an armed robbery, the GBI said

Monday. 

Jason Lappe, 44, allegedly broke into a register at a Kroger on Holcomb Bridge Road in Johns Creek about 7:45

a.m., GBI spokesman Bahan Rich said. He was armed with a handgun and ran from the store after the alleged

robbery, Dunwoody police Sgt. Robert Parsons previously told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. 

A witness followed Lappe to a shopping center parking lot in the 5000 block of Winters Chapel Road, where

Dunwoody and Johns Creek police identified him as the robbery suspect, Parsons said. 

"When confronted by officers, the suspect did not comply with their verbal commands and exited the vehicle,"

Parsons said. "Fearing for his safety and the safety of others, an officer fired one shot, striking the suspect." 

Lappe was taken to Grady Memorial Hospital, where he died. 

The officer who shot Lappe was placed on administrative leave. An investigation is ongoing. 

CREDIT: By Ellen Eldridge 
 
 


Black remembered as a hero at funeral - 73-year- - Denver Post, The (CO)
- August 26, 2018 - page 1B
August 26, 2018 | Denver Post, The (CO) | Noelle Phillips Noelle Phillips, The Denver Post | Page 1B

As three men in American Legion uniforms folded an American flag into a tight triangle, Jeanette
Black clutched the hand of her 11-year-old grandson as they mourned the man who had saved
them from a violent intruder only to be shot and killed by an Aurora police officer who had
responded to their 911 call.

T he boy wiped tears streaming down his face as two buglers played taps, and his father pulled him
Richard Gary B lack Jr., the 73-
close as family, friends and military veterans celebrated the life of Richard Gary B lack
year-old Vietnam veteran who died July 30 in what has been described as one of the most tragic
police shootings in the city's history.

After Saturday's service at Fairmount Cemetery, Jeanette Black said she felt good about the tribute
-- even the presence of Aurora Police Department Chief Nick Metz and a handful of other
uniformed officers. T he service reflected her husband's dignified personality, she said.

"I miss him tremendously," she said. "T here was never a day where we didn't love each other."

Black's heroism on the battlefield and his heroism on the day he died were front and center during
the service.

"He was a hero coming out of that war, and he died a hero defending his family," said Mark Potter,
chaplain for American Legion Post 22 in Northglenn.

T he Rev. Kate Bradsen, the officiant, acknowledged Black's death as an "unspeakable tragedy" and
one that his family may never understand.

"It's hard to think of Gary's death as peaceful. It was anything but," Bradsen said. "God was with
Gary because God always was with Gary."

T he shooting death happened after a naked intruder burst through the Black family's front door
about 1:30 a.m. and attacked the 11-year-old grandson, who was sleeping on the couch. T he
intruder, who was a stranger to the Blacks, carried the 11-year-old to a bathroom and began
assaulting him in the bathtub.

T he boy's father, Chad Hyabashi, and Black fought the intruder, who hit Black in the head with a
vase during the fight. Unable to pull the intruder off the child, Black retrieved his 9mm handgun and
killed the intruder.

Aurora police officers heard Black's gunfire and, as they approached the house, saw Black turn a
corner holding a gun and a flashlight. Officers yelled for Black to drop the gun but never identified

themselves as police. When Black did not drop his gun, one officer fired four shots, killing Black.
T he officer had been involved in a shooting the previous month and had been back on the job for
just over two weeks.

T he scene has been described by Metz as violent and chaotic. T he intruder had been at a party
across the street, and a crowd, which included his mother, had chased him into the Black family
home. T here was screaming and yelling from the partygoers and the child who was being
attacked.

T he shooting has raised questions about how police officers are trained to recognize law- abiding,
armed homeowners and how departments prepare their officers to return to work.

T hose issues were set aside during Saturday's service as a community mourned together.

Jeanette Black said she had invited the Aurora police because she wanted her children and
grandchildren to respect law enforcement in spite of what happened.

"T hey're still here to protect all of us," she said. "T hey're still representatives of our city."

Gary Black was born on a dairy farm in Anderson, S.C., in 1945. His father abandoned the family,
and his mother remarried. But the family struggled financially and with the illness of a younger
stepbrother.

At age 12, Black asked a church pastor for help, and he ended up moving to the Epworth Children's
Home, an orphanage in the state capital of Columbia.

T here, he worked on the school's farm and cut hair. As an adult, Black would tell his family that
Epworth had saved his life and he was a generous donor, Jeanette Black said.

He earned a scholarship to T he Citadel and graduated in 1966. By 1967, he was in Vietnam working
as an intelligence officer. Black served two tours -- July 1967 to February 1968 and April 1970 to
October 1971. He was awarded four Bronze Stars and a Purple Heart for his service.

After receiving an honorable discharge, Black settled in Aurora after being offered a job by Carl
Fronabarger, an Army buddy. Fronabarger owned the S.O.S. Motel and C&C Motors on Sixth
Avenue in Aurora. Black managed the motel and lived there, and the two of them eventually
opened the Sandtrap Lounge at the motel.

"We were like brothers," Fronabarger said. "I never heard him say a cross word about anybody or
anything."

Black met Jeanette, a single mother, in 1974 at the Blue Onion, where she worked as a hostess.

"He was very, very quiet," Jeanette Black said. "I thought, 'He's in here all the time. What's going
on?' "

Black eventually spoke, and the two fell in love.

T hey married and had two daughters -- Catherine and Elizabeth. T ogether, they managed the
hotel and lounge while raising the daughters and Jeannie's son. In 1990, Black went back to school
to study accounting and computer information systems. He became a CPA in 1994 and went to
work for the IRS until he retired in 2015.

T hey had bought their home at 10609 E. Montview Blvd., two weeks after they married. Jeanette
Black said she had once asked for a bigger home because she wanted to add a sewing room, but
her husband had insisted it would be their home for the rest of their lives.

T here, he kept an immaculate garden and built a zipline in the backyard for his four grandchildren.

After the memorial service, Black's grandchildren and daughter, Catherine Braun, spoke about his
life. T he 11-year-old boy, whose life he saved, said his favorite memory of his grand- father would
be their Saturday trips to Sam's Club.

Braun recalled trips to hardware stores, his grilling skills and his daily bowl of ice cream. He was the
only father who would attend her Girl Scout camping trips, she said.

"It didn't bother him even when he ended up setting up all of the tents," she said. "You knew his
love for you in everything he did."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Denver Post Corp.

 
Stepson recounts fatal shooting - Chad Hayashi - Denver Post, The (CO) -
August 2, 2018 - page 2A
August 2, 2018 | Denver Post, The (CO) | 7News | Page 2A

T he stepson of the man shot and killed early Monday morning by Aurora police says he awoke
early that morning to find a woman he didn't know standing in his bedroom doorway.

"And she starts saying to me, 'My son is on drugs and he has your baby,' " Chad Hayashi said.

In an interview with ABC News on Wednesday, Hayashi said there were just seconds between when
his stepfather, Richard "Gary" B lack
assaulted his son and when police shot his stepfather dead.

Richard "Gary" B lack Jr., shot the man who'd broken into their home and

As Hayashi looked over the woman's shoulder that morning, he says, he saw another man in the
house and the bathroom lights on.

"I immediately just shot into the bathroom to find this naked guy soaking wet ... choking my son,
biting his left ear," Hayashi said.

He said he pressed his thumb against the man's throat to get him to release his jaw from the
boy's ear, then had to jam his thumb "up to the first knuckle" into the man's eye socket.

"When he didn't squeal in pain or anything, I got even more worried," Hayashi said.

But the man, who has still not been identified by police, let the boy go and Hayashi said he was able
to flip the man out of the bathtub.

Black was there with him in the bathroom, apparently having confronted the intruder just before
Hayashi awoke. T he two struggled with the intruder before Black shot the intruder twice in the
torso, according to Hayashi.

"My dad exited the bathroom, went around the corner, and I immediately heard multiple shots,
which I thought was my dad engaging these other people in the house," Hayashi said. "T here was
a pause, and then I hear people start screaming 'Police!' and I hear people enter the house. And my
son starts screaming 'I'm here with my dad. T his crazy guy tried to attack me.' "

"And as I turned the corner, my dad is face down ... and he's handcuffed. And I reached down and --
I don't remember if I touched his shoulder or his face -- but he looked at me and I got pushed off
by an officer out the door," Hayashi said.

Hayashi and his mother were taken to a police station, where they had to wait for hours before
being told that Black was dead, he said. But he said he already knew.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Denver Post Corp.

 

 
DENVER (AP) - Thirty-three seconds after arriving at a suburban Denver home where a man had broken in and

attacked an 11-year-old boy, police officers heard shots fired inside.  

An armed man came into view, police said Thursday, refusing five orders to drop his gun. He started to come

toward officers and raise a flashlight he held in his other hand.  

An officer fired four rounds, killing 73-year-old Richard Black, Aurora Police Chief Nick Metz said in the

department's first detailed account of the shooting early Monday.  

The officers soon found the intruder - 26-year-old Dajon Harper - dead in a bathroom from shots Black fired to

protect his grandson. Those were the shots officers heard after arriving at the chaotic scene.  

Metz said he did not hear the uniformed officers identify themselves as police in body camera video. He

acknowledged that Black, a decorated Vietnam veteran, had a "significant hearing impairment" from his military

service that may have made it hard for him to hear the orders to drop his gun.  

Police will not release bodycam footage or 911 calls yet, citing the wishes of the Black family and prosecutors who

will decide whether to charge the unidentified officer who opened fire.  

The police chief said portions of the audio and video are hard to understand because of background noise,

including screaming, but he said a forensic review will try to clear it up.  

A family lawyer said Black's wife, Jeanette, gave an emergency dispatcher physical descriptions of Black, her son

and the intruder, but Metz said those were not found on any of the 911 recordings.  

Black was white, and Harper was black.  

The Black family said in a statement released by police that Jeanette Black's 911 call was difficult to understand

and acknowledged the police department's position that the officers did not receive descriptions.  

Jeanette Black was heard on bodycam footage saying, "He has a gun," as police arrived, but Metz said he does not

know if the officer heard that.  

Harper, who was released from prison in February after serving time for weapons and menacing charges, broke

into the home by knocking open the front door. He had left a party across the street, where he became out of

control, acting irrationally and damaging cars, Metz said.  

Some partygoers followed him into Black's house to try to get Harper to come back, adding to the confusion.

Others were standing outside with Black's wife when police arrived. One caller told a dispatcher that Harper was on

drugs.  

over a month ago.  

The police chief said Black acted heroically to protect his family but also defended the actions of his officers,

including the one who killed Black, a fellow military veteran who was involved in another fatal police shooting just

The officer returned to duty 14 days after that shooting, which Metz said was much longer than the minimum three

days of leave recommended by the International Association of Chiefs of Police.  

"They were not reckless. These officers responded how I would expect them to respond, given the very limited

information they had," he said.  

Sighing and looking down at the floor, Metz said the body camera video was heartbreaking.  

"I can tell you that when my folks sat around the table and first saw it - and I'm talking about police personnel who

have been on the job 25, 30 years who have seen just about everything - there wasn't a dry eye around the table,"

the chief said.  

"It is very horrific to watch, not just from the standpoint of watching a man who saved his family get shot but also

knowing what that little boy was subjected to," he said.  

In their statement, the Black family urged people not to threaten or harass police because of what happened,

noting that Richard Black deeply appreciated law enforcement.  

___  

This story has been corrected to show that the suspect was black.  

Credit: By COLLEEN SLEVIN, Associated Press 
 
 


 
A man who allegedly tried to run over a Westminster police officer with his car was shot and killed by police

Thursday afternoon, a press release said. 

Another unidentified suspect is in custody. 

Just after 2 p.m. Thursday, police said two men were stealing from a business in the 11800 block of Sheridan

Boulevard. One of the two reportedly threatened a security officer with a knife. 

One man fled on foot, while the other left in a car. The driver refused to pull over despite repeated attempts by

police to "disable the car" and tried to hit an officer who was standing out of his patrol car, police reports said. 

The officer fired his gun and hit the driver. 

The driver was transported to a hospital where he was later pronounced deceased. The officer involved in the

incident was not injured. 

The second man was taken into custody by other officers in the area. 

The 17th Judicial District Critical Incident Team is investigating the incident. 

Early Monday, Aurora police officers shot and killed a 73-old-man who fatally shot a naked intruder who broke into

his home. 

Aurora police said Thursday that the man, identified as Richard Black Jr., may not have heard orders to put down

his gun because of a hearing impairment, The Denver Post reported. Black's 11-year-old grandson also was

screaming because he had just been attacked by the intruder, identified as 26-year-old Dajon Harper. 

Police Chief Nick Metz confirmed that the officer who shot Black was the same one involved in a fatal shooting

outside an East Colfax Avenue motel in late June. He said the officer, who was not been identified but is a three-

year veteran of the department, completed the requirements necessary to come back after a shooting. He was

declared fit for duty after spending 15 days on leave. 
 
 

Police Chief: Cop Killed CO Homeowner in 'Chaotic - Daily Beast, The -
August 2, 2018
August 2, 2018 | Daily Beast, The

Richard "Gary" B lack, who was killed

A chaotic scene and lack of information led to the death of Richard "Gary" B lack
by police after defending his Colorado home from a naked intruder, Aurora Police Chief Nicholas
Metz said during a Thursday press conference. Describing the "incredibly chaotic situation," Metz
said that when Black's wife called 911, she told the operator that the intruder had a gun and
provided no description of the attacker who was in the bathroom with her grandson. When police
arrived to the scene, they saw a man holding a gun and a flashlight near bathroom, Metz said.
Officers told him to put his gun down four times, but he didn't comply. When Black—who had shot
and killed the intruder after the man tried to drown his grandson in the bathtub—entered the main
room of the house and started walking towards police, an officer shot him four times. He later
died from his injuries at a local hospital. Police then found the intruder, Dajon Harper, dead on the
bathroom floor and the grandson still alive in the bathtub. It then became clear to police that Black
had shot Harper before police entered the scene. Metz told reporters that Black was hard of
hearing, so he may not have heard officers' orders to drop his weapon. T he police chief also
"strongly disputed" the notion that the officer involved in the shooting was acting recklessly, and
said that he had completed all the required training to return to work after he was involved in
another shooting in late June.

Reproduced with permission of copyrig ht owner or its licensee. Further reproduction prohibited without permission. © 2018 The
Daily Beast Company LLC.

 
Prosecutor: No charges against officer who shot - Durango Herald, The
(CO) - December 4, 2018
December 4, 2018 | Durango Herald, The (CO) | Kathleen Foody

DENVER – A Colorado police officer will not face charges for fatally shooting a homeowner who
had just killed an intruder inside his suburban Denver home, prosecutors said in a letter released
Monday.

Adams County District Attorney Dave Young described Richard "Gary" B lack
"harrowing tragedy" but said his role was to determine whether the Aurora Police officer who shot
the 73-year-old Vietnam War veteran was justified in using deadly force.

Richard "Gary" B lack's death as a

Based on witness interviews and more than 90 videos captured by officers' body cameras, Young
said Officer Drew Limbaugh did not know who Black was and fired when the homeowner refused
police commands to drop his handgun.

Young said Limbaugh's belief was reasonable and prosecutors cannot prove that the officer was
not justified in firing. He said there also is no evidence that Limbaugh was reckless or criminally
negligent.

"Officer Limbaugh engaged in conduct that was consciously focused on minimizing the risk to
public safety," Young wrote.

At the time of the shooting, Young said police did not know that Black had woken after midnight to
investigate banging sounds and soon heard his 11-year-old grandson screaming as an intruder
attacked him inside the bathroom. Police also did not know that the intruder, later identified as
Dajon Harper, was lying on the bathroom floor after being shot twice by Black, he said.

"T he evaluation of Officer Limbaugh's reasonable belief must be based not upon what we now
know, but the circumstances as he perceived them at the time: hearing gunshots and then seeing
an armed man emerge from a back room who refused commands to drop the weapon," Young
wrote.

T he witnesses and police officers interviewed by investigators paint a chaotic scene. Young said
police arriving at the home in Aurora around 1:30 a.m. on July 30 had little information and no
description of a suspect.

Within seconds, he said police heard gunshots inside the house and saw Black come into the
hallway holding a handgun in one hand and a flashlight in the other. Young said the body camera
footage shows police repeatedly told Black to drop his weapon before he came toward officers,
raising the flashlight, and Limbaugh fired three times.

Police have said Black had hearing impairment due to his military service. Young wrote that Black

may not have heard the commands or recognized the officers as police but said that does not
change Limbaugh's "reasonable belief that Mr. Black presented a threat."

Witnesses told police that Harper was at a party at a family member's home nearby and may have
been using drugs. Early that morning, he ran away and apparently broke down the Black family's
front door.

Black's grandson told police he woke up after feeling a cold breeze. He described walking toward
his father's bedroom but then seeing a stranger showering as he passed the open bathroom door.

T he boy said the man grabbed him, locked the bathroom door and was strangling him before his
father and grandfather were able to get inside the room.

Harper, who was 26, died after being shot twice in the chest by Black. An autopsy report found
levels of marijuana and methamphetamine in his blood.

(c) 2018, The Durang o Herald, All Rights Reserved

 

No charges for officer who shot, killed homeowner - Denver Post, The
(CO) - December 4, 2018 - page 1A
December 4, 2018 | Denver Post, The (CO) | The Denver Post | Page 1A

An Aurora police officer who shot and killed a 73-year-old homeowner defending his home against
a violent intruder will not face criminal charges in what the Adams County District Attorney's Office
described as a "harrowing tragedy."

In its review, the district attorney's office said body camera footage from Drew Limbaugh, the
officer who fired the fatal shots, was the critical piece of evidence that showed Limbaugh made the
Richard Gary B lack,
best possible decision amid the chaos happening inside the home of Richard Gary B lack
according to a letter written by District Attorney Dave Young to Aurora Police Chief Nick Metz.

"T here is no evidence to contradict Officer Limbaugh's reasonable belief that Mr. Black presented
a threat to the officers because he did not drop the weapon and could shoot at any moment,"
Young's letter said.

However, lawyers representing Black's family took a different view, saying the body camera
footage shows Black never raised his handgun and never pointed it at police.

"T he District Attorney's report selectively emphasizes certain facts in order to justify its
conclusion," the statement by the Rathod Mohamedbhai firm said. "But the report minimizes what
is clear from the body camera footage: the officers who responded to the Black residence never
identified themselves as law enforcement to Mr. Black prior to shooting him dead."

T he body camera footage was released Monday by Aurora police.

"In consult with the (Black) family, we are sharing a mutually-agreeable portion of the involved
officer's body-worn-camera in this chaotic incident," Metz said in a statement.

Black's death was surrounded in controversy for multiple reasons.

First, Black was a decorated Vietnam veteran with a concealed weapons permit who had legally
defended his home against an intruder. T he case calls for law enforcement to debate how police
respond to encounters with armed citizens, and Young urged police to discuss the issue in
community forums and during training sessions for officers.

Second, Limbaugh, the officer who shot Black, had returned to duty two weeks earlier after killing a
man on June 27 in an officer-involved shooting. Some questioned whether Limbaugh returned to
duty too soon, but Metz defended his department's decision to send the officer back on patrol.

Limbaugh was cleared in the June 27 shooting by the Arapahoe County district attorney. He is
working at the police department but is on a non-enforcement assignment, said Sgt. Bill Hummel,

an Aurora police spokesman. An internal investigation into Black's shooting death will begin
T uesday.

Black was killed in the early morning hours of July 30 after an intruder, who had been at a house
party across the street, busted through Black's front door and attacked Black's 11-year-old
grandson. T he intruder, later identified as 26-year-old Dajon Harper, took the boy into a bathroom
where Black and his son, Chad Hayashi, fought with him to free and save the boy.

Black shot and killed Harper in the bathroom just as police arrived. Black, still armed and carrying a
flashlight, emerged from a hallway and was shot by Limbaugh.

T he night of the incident, officers arrived to a chaotic scene, finding the front door of the home
broken and several people inside and outside the residence. Shots rang out as officers approached
the front door.

Limbaugh told investigators he was looking through the front door opening, just after hearing
shots, when he saw a man wearing a robe emerging from a back hallway, Young's letter said.

"Officer Limbaugh recalled yelling, 'Drop the gun!' and 'Show me your hands!' multiple times,"
according to the review. T he man inside the home did not respond, Limbaugh told investigators.

Black kept coming toward the front door, but Limbaugh didn't know who Black was or what had
just happened inside the home.

Limbaugh's body camera reveals a period of 10 seconds between the time he shouted "Gun!" to
the time he fires his weapon, the review said. Officers gave multiple commands for Black to drop
the gun during that 10 seconds, the letter said.

"Believing that 'the threat was imminent,' Officer Limbaugh fired his weapon at the man," Young's
letter said. "Although we now know the tragic reality that Mr. Black lawfully possessed a weapon
and justifiably used it against an intruder, the investigation proved that the police officers who
responded to this incident did not know those critical details. Consequently, the evaluation of
Officer Limbaugh's reasonable belief must be based not upon what we now know, but the
circumstances as he perceived them at the time: hearing gunshots and then seeing an armed man
emerge from a back room who refused commands to drop the weapon."

Black had significant hearing loss from his Army service, attorneys said. And the scene was noisy
from people screaming, including Black's grandson, who had been assaulted, and Harper's
mother.

Black was shot three times -- in the right shoulder, right lower chest and upper back, the letter said.

Black's family, through their attorney, said Monday that they are "extremely disappointed" that
criminal charges will not be pursued.

"Mr. Black was a Vietnam veteran who served two tours of duty, earning four separate Bronze
Stars for his service, as well as a Purple Heart," the statement said. "He was a dedicated family

man, and his last moments were spent heroically defending his family against intruders in his
home. As the District Attorney's report demonstrates, Mr. Black's death was an unnecessary
tragedy."

A toxicology report on Harper revealed levels of marijuana and methamphetamine in his system.

T he night of the incident, Harper had been at a nearby home celebrating his release from an 18-
month jail sentence on a robbery charge, the letter said.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Denver Post Corp.

 
Colorado man's death inspires push for police - Associated Press State
Wire: Colorado (CO) - December 5, 2018
December 5, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Colorado (CO) | KATHLEEN FOODY Associated Press

DENVER (AP) — A Colorado lawmaker is crafting state legislation governing when police officers
can return to work after a fatal shooting following the highly publicized death of a homeowner
killed by police during a break-in at his house.

T he case has raised criticism about how police handled the chaotic encounter with Richard "Gary"
Richard "Gary"
B lack
B lack. T he 73-year-old was holding the gun he used to fatally shoot an intruder who attacked an
11-year-old boy in the middle of the night when a police officer shot him.

Prosecutors said this week the officer will not face charges in Black's death, but questions remain
over whether he returned to work on the graveyard shift too soon after another shooting.

Aurora Police Officer Drew Limbaugh, who had three years' experience, had killed another man
who pointed a gun at police on June 27, and returned to duty about two weeks later. An attorney
for Black's family thinks that was too soon.

"Any officer should be given time to recover, time to heal," said Siddhartha Rathod. "Police officers
are not military personnel. T he job is to protect and serve."

State Sen. Rhonda Fields said she wants to create statewide requirements for evaluating when
officers can return to work. Fields, the assistant majority leader, became an activist after the 2005
murder of her son, Javad and his fiancée Vivian Wolfe and later ran for the Legislature. Fields has
met with organizations representing police chiefs and sheriffs about her plans. She dropped a
broad requirement that officers stay off duty for a set number of days after receiving pushback
from the officials.

Fields said they worried that would hamper smaller departments, especially in rural areas. Instead,
she is considering a number of specific requirements, including psychiatric care and training on a
gun range or in a simulator.

Some departments, including Denver Police, already use a similar process, she said.

In Aurora, a police unit created two years ago creates an individual plan for each officer returning
to work after a shooting. A return plan may include counseling from peers or psychologists,
simulator or live firearms training, stress management techniques or other specific training.

Police Chief Nick Metz defended Limbaugh's return to work after the shooting, saying Aurora far
exceeded a national police chiefs' association recommended for three days off after a shooting.
Metz said Limbaugh met with psychologists, received help through a peer support program and
went through shooting range exercises with trainers before returning to work after the first

shooting.

"T he reality is ... we can't control what our officers are going to run into, whether it's 10 days after
a shooting or two years after a shooting," Metz said. "T he situation dictates their response. And I
believe this officer was ready to go back."

Prosecutors in Arapahoe County determined that Limbaugh's decision to shoot during the earlier
encounter was justified. T hey said a man wanted for firing a gun into the air pointed a handgun at
Limbaugh and another officer during a foot chase. T he suspect attempted to fire at police but the
gun malfunctioned, prosecutors said.

Based on witness interviews and more than 90 videos captured by officers' body cameras, Adams
County District Attorney Dave Young said this week that Limbaugh will not face charges for
shooting Black. T he officer did not know who Black was and fired when the homeowner refused
police commands to drop his handgun, Young said.

But the attorney for Black's family said prosecutors failed to note that Limbaugh and others
officers never identified themselves as police.

Body camera footage released this week shows Black moving out of a darkened hallway to a
lighted living room while police shouted at him from outside the front door, where it was still dark.
Police shouted "drop the gun," ''let me see your hands" and "get your hands in the air" before Black
raised his hand holding a flashlight. Limbaugh fired three times.

After police entered the lighted home, Black told them that his son, grandson and "the
perpetrator" were in the bathroom.

Black had shot the intruder earlier and later heard unidentified people ordering him to put down a
gun he legally owned, he said. "No reasonable person should have dropped that firearm," Rathod
said.

"Had this officer been given the time to recover from the prior shooting, would he have announced
himself and said 'Police'? Would that one word have saved Mr. Black's life? We won't know."

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Colorado DA clears cop who killed armed Vietnam - Dayton Daily News
(OH) - December 5, 2018
December 5, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Crystal Bonvillian, Cox Media Group National Content Desk

AURORA, COLO. —

A Colorado district attorney has cleared an Aurora police officer of criminal wrongdoing in the July
shooting death of an armed Vietnam veteran who killed a naked intruder trying to drown his 11-
year-old grandson.

Dave Young, district attorney for Colorado's 17th Judicial District, on Monday announced his
office's decision in the July 30 death of Richard "Gary" B lack
police Officer Drew Limbaugh as officers responded to multiple 911 calls reporting an intruder in
Black's home.

Richard "Gary" B lack Jr. Black, 73, was shot by Aurora

Black, who had just shot and killed the intruder, 26-year-old Dajon Harper, was shot in his living
room after he did not respond to multiple officers' orders to drop his weapon. His killing was
caught on Limbaugh's body camera.

Portions of two officers' body camera footage were released Monday by the Aurora Police
Department. Police Chief Nick Metz said in a statement that the footage was a "mutually-
agreeable portion" released after consultation with Black's family, who wanted the footage of his
death released.

T he footage made public by Metz's office was a big piece of the evidence that Young cited in
making his decision not to prosecute Limbaugh.

"Based on the evidence presented and the applicable Colorado law, there is no reasonable
likelihood of success of proving any crimes beyond a reasonable doubt at trial," Young wrote in his
letter to Metz. "T herefore, no criminal charges will be filed against the law enforcement officer
involved in this incident."

Young wrote in his legal analysis that the body camera footage "corroborates the notion of
uncertainty surrounding the dispatch call," which was reported to officers as an "unknown problem"
at Black's home. He pointed out that responding officers, including Limbaugh, heard people
outside the home talking about there being "blood everywhere" and that someone was hurting a
child inside the house.

T he officers heard gunfire seconds after they approached the house, then saw the armed Black
through the kicked-in front door.

"Perhaps Mr. Black did not know that it was the police standing at his front door," Young wrote.
"Perhaps Mr. Black did not hear the police commands to drop the weapon. Either way, there is no

evidence to contradict Officer Limbaugh's reasonable belief that Mr. Black presented a threat to
the officers because he did not drop the weapon and could shoot at any moment."

Attorneys for the Black family disputed Young's viewpoint, saying in a statement obtained by the
Denver Post that the body camera footage proves Black never pointed his gun at the officers, but
kept it at his side as he moved toward them.

Officers also failed to identify themselves as police officers.

"T he district attorney's report selectively emphasizes certain facts in order to justify its conclusion,"
the statement by lawyers at Rathod Mohamedbhai LLC read, according to the Post. "But the
report minimizes what is clear from the body camera footage: T he officers who responded to the
Black residence never identified themselves as law enforcement to Mr. Black prior to shooting him
dead."

Black was a licensed gun owner who had legally bought his handgun in 2009 and had a concealed
weapon permit, the Post reported. An Army veteran who served two tours of duty in Vietnam --
earning four Bronze Stars and a Purple Heart -- he suffered from significant hearing loss
stemming from his time in the military, his family's attorneys said.

"He was a dedicated family man and his last moments were spent heroically defending his family
against intruders in his home," the lawyers' statement said. "As the district attorney's report
demonstrates, Mr. Black's death was an unnecessary tragedy."

His family is "extremely disappointed" that criminal charges are not being pursued against
Limbaugh, the Post said.

Black's stepson, Chad Hayashi, told ABC 7 in Denver two days after the shooting that Black died
like he lived.

"It's just heartbreaking. My dad was a hero," Hayashi said. "My son wouldn't be here if it wasn't for
him. I don't think any of us would be here."

Fox 31 in Denver reported that Black's death was the second fatal police shooting Limbaugh was
part of in a 33-day span. Limbaugh, who shot and killed Joey Bronson, 39, in a June 27 incident at
the Biltmore Motel, was on desk duty until July 18, when he was returned to patrol.

He had not yet been cleared of wrongdoing in Bronson's death when he killed Black.

One of the Black family's lawyers said in the days immediately after Black's shooting that his family
was concerned that Limbaugh had been returned to the street too soon.

"Of course, had the officer been at his desk, this might have been very different," Qusair
Mohamedbhai told Fox 31.

T he 18th Judicial District Attorney's Office, which covers the counties of Arapahoe, Douglas, Elbert
and Lincoln, cleared Limbaugh of wrongdoing in Bronson's shooting on Aug. 29. District Attorney

George Brauchler wrote in his own letter to Metz that Bronson, who had earlier fired two shots
into the air from a .380-caliber handgun, was shot to death after he pointed his weapon at
Limbaugh, and after two other officers had ordered him to drop his weapon at least three times.

Metz said in his statement Monday that Limbaugh remains in a "non-enforcement role" since
Black's shooting. Now that the decision over criminal charges has been made, an internal
investigation will be launched into the officer's actions, the chief said.

Click here for access to Brauchler's report on Officer Limbaugh's June 27 shooting of Joey
Bronson.

Young said that the findings of the criminal investigation into Black's shooting, which was
conducted by detectives with the Aurora and Denver police departments, were submitted to his
office Oct. 9. He and his staff reviewed police reports, transcripts and videos of interviews with
witnesses, photographs and diagrams of the crime scene and a total of 94 body camera
recordings from officers at the scene.

"A thorough review of the initial responding officers' recordings provides significant insight into the
sequence of events from their perspective," Young wrote.

Young's letter and summary of events, which includes details of 911 calls, witness interviews and
body camera footage, paints a harrowing portrait of two families trying to stop a break-in and
assault of a child that ultimately ended with both Harper and Black dead.

'T hat's my Grandpa. He saved me.'

T he first 911 calls came in at 1:28 a.m. June 30 from a home in the 1900 block of Iola Street, where
Harper's family had held a combination birthday party and celebration of his release from prison
earlier in the day June 29, Young's summary of events said. One of the calls came from Harper's
12-year-old brother, who told a dispatcher that his brother was "going crazy" and was "out there
trippin'."

Neighbors of the Iola Street home, where Harper's cousin lived, also called police to report a loud
fight at the home.

Interviews with several members of Harper's family indicated that he began acting oddly at his
cousin's home, chanting and beating the end of a stick against the floor. Though none of them
saw him take anything, they told investigators they believed he was on drugs.

Harper's autopsy confirmed that he had methamphetamine and marijuana in his system when he
died, the summary said.

Afraid after he punched his younger brother in the face, Harper's family locked him inside a
bedroom at the front of the home. He broke a window and escaped, leaving a trail of blood behind.

T hat trail of blood led to Black's front door about 300 yards away.

Black's wife, Jeannette Black, called police five minutes after that first 911 call to report someone
breaking into their home, located across an intersection in the 10600 block of Montview Boulevard,
Young's summary of events said.

"T he nature of the call is chaotic -- sounds of banging and yelling can be overheard in the
background," the summary said. "T he caller paused during the chaos and a different female voice
can be overheard in the background saying something about being 'in these people's house,'
followed by, 'I'm sorry, ma'am. He's on some kind of drugs. T his is my son.'"

Jeannette Black told the dispatcher that her son and grandson were trapped in the bathroom with
the intruder and her grandson was "bleeding all over the place." She said her husband was fighting
with the intruder.

Interviews with witnesses indicated that after fleeing his cousin's house, Harper broke into a family
member's car, then ran across the intersection and kicked in the Blacks' front door, which was
partially torn from its hinges. T he couple's grandson, who was sleeping on the couch, awoke to
see the door broken and his grandfather outside, looking for an intruder.

While walking back to the bedroom where his father and sister were sleeping, the boy said he heard
someone in the shower.

"T he door to the bathroom opened and K.H. saw a 'random black guy' with a 'delusional look,'" the
summary of his interview said. "T he guy was naked."

T he boy told investigators Harper forced him inside the bathroom and locked the door before
pulling his clothes off of him and throwing him in the shower.

"T he guy tried to strangle K.H. and pushed him under the water in the tub," the summary said.
"K.H. fought back. He heard his dad and grandpa trying to break down the bathroom door. T here
was blood all over the bathroom walls."

Other interviews, including that of Hayashi, indicated that Harper's mother, uncle and male cousin
followed Gary Black back into his house to get Harper out of there.

Hayashi told detectives that upon learning that Harper had his son in the bathroom, he ran to
where his stepfather was trying to get inside. Once they and Harper's uncle and cousin had the
bathroom door broken open, Hayashi could see his son, naked and standing in the bathtub with a
naked Harper holding him in a chokehold and biting his ear, the district attorney's summary said.

"Mr. Hayashi had no weapons, but got into the bathtub and tried to defend his son by grabbing at
the black male's neck and face," the summary said. "He stuck his right thumb deep into the male's
left eye socket."

Hayashi tried to get a "wet and slippery" Harper away from his son, at which point he said he saw
Harper's cousin, David Lovelace, "stomping on" Harper. Lovelace told investigators he told his
cousin, "Get out of here, they're going to kill you."

See a portion of Aurora police officers' body camera footage from the morning of July 30 below.
Warning: T he footage, which shows the fatal shooting of homeowner Gary Black, contains graphic
images and language.

Harper's mother, Frances Shanelle Mayfield, screamed, "He's got the baby!" or something similar,
according to multiple interviews.

Hayashi said Harper released his chokehold on his son after a struggle of about a minute to a
minute and a half, at which point he pushed the intruder out of the tub. Lovelace remembered it
slightly differently, saying he was eventually able to grab his cousin by his foot and pull him from
the tub.

By that point, Black had entered the bathroom with his 9mm Luger handgun.

Lovelace left the bathroom prior to Harper being shot, according to his interview. He told
detectives that he saw police arriving and pointing weapons into the house, so he put his hands up
and told them, "It's not me."

T hat portion of what happened was captured on officers' body cameras.

Hayashi told investigators that when Black came into the bathroom, Harper picked up a vase and
struck his stepfather in the head, causing him to fall into the shower door. His stepfather fired two
shots into Harper's body.

"Mr. Hayashi did not see the gun but saw the muzzle flashes near the male's midsection," the
summary said. "T he male slumped and fell to the floor with his head toward the bathtub."

Harper was shot at 1:38 a.m., according to body camera footage that captured the gunshots. T en
minutes had elapsed since his family began calling 911 and five minutes since Jeannette Black made
her call.

Gary Black left the bathroom, Hayashi said, "presumably to chase the others out of the house."
Hayashi, who was still in the bathtub with his son, heard three gunshots.

He then heard police officers identify themselves, he said.

"At that point, Mr. Hayashi knew the police shot his stepfather," the summary said.

A few seconds later, officers came into the bathroom, where they gave Hayashi's son a towel to
wrap around his body and led him and his father from the house.

Both saw Black lying unresponsive on the living room floor as they walked by.

"T hat's my Grandpa. He saved me," the boy was heard saying on body camera footage.

'Gun, Gun! Drop the gun!'

T he video footage released Tuesday by the Aurora Police Department backed up Black family
attorney claims that officers failed to identify themselves to Black prior to the gunshots that took
the Army veteran's life.

T he five-minute-long video shows an officer arriving at Black's home, where a woman outside is
heard screaming, "T here's blood everywhere! Oh my God!" Harper's mother, Shanelle Mayfield,
tells the officer, "He's on some kind of drugs," and then appears to say something about her son
hurting someone.

"Just stay back," the officer tells her in a gruff voice.

A comparison of the video to the district attorney's transcripts of several cameras' footage shows
that the officer wearing that camera is Limbaugh.

Read 17th Judicial District Attorney Dave Young's report on the shooting of Gary Black below.

Aurora Police Shooting Decision Letter by c_bonvillian on Scribd

As Limbaugh gets to the driveway of the home, a woman in a nightgown, later identified as
Jeannette Black, is seen walking past, telling the officer, "He's got guns."

As Limbaugh approaches the porch, Lovelace is seen exiting the house.

"Is this the guy?" an officer on the porch says. "Who are you?" another voice asks Lovelace.

A second later, the two shots that killed Harper are heard from inside the house.

"Oh, (expletive)," someone says as the officers on the porch move back from the open doorway.

Limbaugh pulls his weapon and activates the flashlight on it, aiming the handgun at the door. T here
is no movement from inside at first.

"What do you got? What do you got?" an officer asks him.

"Nothing," Limbaugh responds.

A second or two later, Gary Black emerges from a hallway, wearing a bathrobe.

"Gun! Gun! Drop the gun!" Limbaugh screams.

"Let me see your hands!" another officer yells as Black hovers in the doorway of the hall, appearing
to look toward the doorway where officers stand outside. It is unclear if he can see them.

"Drop the gun! Hey! Get your hands in the air!" Limbaugh shouts from his location at the foot of
the porch steps.

Black moves to the other side of the hallway door, appearing to take cover. A couple of seconds

later, he moves into full view, turning toward the door.

"Guy in a robe's got the gun," Limbaugh says.

Black's gun can be seen in his right hand, which is down at his side. He lifts his left hand, shining a
flashlight at the doorway.

Limbaugh fires three shots and Black falls to the living room floor.

"You got it? You got it?" an officer asks Limbaugh.

"Yes," Limbaugh says, firing another shot at Black. "Drop the gun!"

A few seconds later, another officer asks, "Is he down? Is he down?"

"He's down. He's down," Limbaugh replies.

As Limbaugh approaches the door, a man's voice can be heard screaming, "No!" repeatedly,
though it is unclear if the voice is coming from inside the house or outside. According to reports
about that morning, Harper's family initially believed police officers had killed him.

Limbaugh holds his gun on Black, shouting at him not to move toward his dropped weapon. Black,
who lies mostly on his back, can be seen moving for several seconds as the officers determine
how to enter the house.

As other officers prepare to go inside, Limbaugh keeps his weapon trained on Black.

"Somebody get some rubber gloves on," the officer says in a shaky voice. "I've got you."

An officer who spots blood in the vicinity of the front door tells the others to check themselves for
gunshot wounds, but Limbaugh tells him no one was hit.

Another officer, identified in documents as Sgt. Patricio Serrant, says in an urgent tone that there
was supposed to possibly be a baby inside the house, drowning, so Limbaugh begins to enter the
living room. He yells for anyone else in the house to make themselves known.

Black's grandson can be heard yelling from the bathroom. T he mortally wounded Black also
speaks up.

"My son and my grandson are in the bathroom with the perpetrator," he says from the floor.

T he public release of Limbaugh's camera footage ends there, but Young's summary of events said
that the officer went to the bathroom, where the footage showed Hayashi and his son standing in
the bathtub and Harper lying dead on the floor. Limbaugh then checks the rest of the house for
additional threats.

T he second officer's camera footage begins in the Blacks' driveway, where members of Harper's

family can be heard telling the officer he is inside "choking a kid." T he officer encounters Jeannette
Black, who sounds tearful.

"Please!" she urges the officer, who the district attorney's transcript identifies as Serrant. "He's in
the bathroom drowning my grandson, I think!"

"Who is? What's his name?" Serrant asks.

"A drug addict that's their friend," Jeannette Black says, indicating Harper's family. "He broke our
house in…"

Her voice trails off as Serrant continues up the steps of the porch, where he encounters Lovelace.
As he questions the man, the shots are fired from inside.

As Serrant hurries off the porch toward the home's garage, he calls in, "Cruiser 13, we got shots
fired."

T he sergeant's body camera shows the shooting from his angle, which shows the broken door of
the house and little else. T he footage ends as he follows Limbaugh into the house and, with rubber
gloves on his hands, approaches Black to offer medical aid.

T he event summary said Serrant stayed with Black as other officers cleared the home. When
Hayashi and his son came out of the bathroom, he escorted the boy to the front door, where
other officers took him outside.

Serrant learned from Black that he was the homeowner.

"I think he was trying to protect, but I don't know," Serrant said to other officers, according to the
summary. "He had a gun. He wouldn't drop it."

Black's autopsy showed that he was struck by three of Limbaugh's four shots, according to
Young's summary of the shooting. Bullets entered his body in the right shoulder, the right chest
and the upper back.

"T he gunshot wounds to the chest and back caused catastrophic injuries to the thoracic spinal cord
and internal organs," the summary said.

T he forensic pathologist also found evidence of blunt force trauma, apparently from Black's
encounter with Harper.

Harper was killed by two shots to the chest at close range, his autopsy revealed. He also had
abrasions, bruises and superficial cuts on his face, head, neck, chest, back, shoulders arms and
hands, presumably from breaking out of his cousin's house and into the Black home.

T he investigation of the case showed that Harper had a "significant history of arrests and
convictions, both as a juvenile and an adult," Young's summary said. He was most recently
arrested for robbery in November 2016, a crime for which he was sentenced the following April to

18 months in jail.

Harper was sent in October 2017 to a state prison on a parole violation but was sent back to
county jail in February to complete his misdemeanor sentence in the robbery case.

He was out of jail just over 24 hours when he was shot and killed.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 

 
DENVER (AP) - Thirty-three seconds after arriving at a suburban Denver home where a man had broken in and

attacked an 11-year-old boy, police officers heard shots fired inside.  

An armed man came into view, police said Thursday, refusing five orders to drop his gun. He started to come

toward officers and raise a flashlight he held in his other hand.  

An officer fired four rounds, killing 73-year-old Richard Black, Aurora Police Chief Nick Metz said in the

department's first detailed account of the shooting early Monday.  

The officers soon found the intruder - 26-year-old Dajon Harper - dead in a bathroom from shots Black fired to

protect his grandson. Those were the shots officers heard after arriving at the chaotic scene.  

Metz said he did not hear the uniformed officers identify themselves as police in body camera video. He

acknowledged that Black, a decorated Vietnam veteran, had a "significant hearing impairment" from his military

service that may have made it hard for him to hear the orders to drop his gun.  

Police will not release bodycam footage yet, citing the wishes of the Black family and prosecutors who will decide

whether to charge the unidentified officer who opened fire.  

Portions of the audio and video are hard to understand because of background noise, including screaming, but the

police chief said a forensic review will try to clear it up.  

A family lawyer said Black's wife, Jeanette, gave an emergency dispatcher physical descriptions of Black, her son

and the intruder, but Metz said those were not found on any of the 911 recordings.  

Black was white, and Harper was black.  

The Black family said in a statement released by police that Jeanette Black's 911 call was difficult to understand

and acknowledged the police department's position that the officers did not receive descriptions.  

Jeanette Black was heard on bodycam footage saying, "He has a gun," as police arrived, but Metz said he does not

know if the officer heard that.  

In one of several 911 recordings released Thursday night, a woman who identified herself as Harper's mother told

the dispatcher that her son was on drugs but was unarmed.  

"He's literally kicked in some people across the street door. ... He's on some type of drug or something," she said

frantically. "He's running through the neighborhood busting cars, busting in people's doors while they sleep. I don't

know what he's on. He's bleeding."  

The woman later said Harper is "hurting this little baby. He kicked in their door."  

Harper, who was released from prison in February after serving time for weapons and menacing charges, broke

into the home by knocking open the front door. He had left a party across the street, where he became out of

control, acting irrationally and damaging cars, Metz said.  

Some partygoers followed him into Black's house to try to get Harper to come back, adding to the confusion.

Others were standing outside with Black's wife when police arrived.  

The police chief said Black acted heroically to protect his family but also defended the actions of his officers,

including the one who killed Black, a fellow military veteran who was involved in another fatal police shooting just

over a month ago.  

The officer returned to duty 14 days after that shooting, which Metz said was much longer than the minimum three

days of leave recommended by the International Association of Chiefs of Police.  

"They were not reckless. These officers responded how I would expect them to respond, given the very limited

information they had," he said.  

Sighing and looking down at the floor, Metz said the body camera video was heartbreaking.  

"I can tell you that when my folks sat around the table and first saw it - and I'm talking about police personnel who

have been on the job 25, 30 years who have seen just about everything - there wasn't a dry eye around the table,"

the chief said.  

"It is very horrific to watch, not just from the standpoint of watching a man who saved his family get shot but also

knowing what that little boy was subjected to," he said.  

In their statement, the Black family urged people not to threaten or harass police because of what happened,

noting that Richard Black deeply appreciated law enforcement.  

___  

Associated Press writer Thomas Peipert contributed to this report.  

Credit: By COLLEEN SLEVIN, Associated Press 
 
 


 
A chaotic scene and lack of information led to the death of Richard “Gary” Black, who was killed by police after

defending his Colorado home from a naked intruder, Aurora Police Chief Nicholas Metz said during a Thursday

press conference. Describing the “incredibly chaotic situation,” Metz said that when Black’s wife called 911, she

told the operator that the intruder had a gun and provided no description of the attacker who was in the bathroom

with her grandson. When police arrived to the scene, they saw a man holding a gun and a flashlight near bathroom,

Metz said. Officers told him to put his gun down four times, but he didn’t comply. When Black—who had shot and

killed the intruder after the man tried to drown his grandson in the bathtub—entered the main room of the house

and started walking towards police, an officer shot him four times. He later died from his injuries at a local

hospital. Police then found the intruder, Dajon Harper, dead on the bathroom floor and the grandson still alive in

the bathtub. It then became clear to police that Black had shot Harper before police entered the scene. Metz told

reporters that Black was hard of hearing, so he may not have heard officers’ orders to drop his weapon. The police

chief also “strongly disputed” the notion that the officer involved in the shooting was acting recklessly, and said

that he had completed all the required training to return to work after he was involved in another shooting in late

June. 
 
 


 
Click here for updates on this story 

    DENVER (KMGH) -- The stepson of the man shot and killed early Monday morning by Aurora police says there

were just seconds between when his stepfather shot the man who’d broken into their home and assaulted his son

and when police shot his stepfather dead. 

Chad Hayashi spoke to ABC News on Wednesday about the police shooting that left his stepfather, Richard “Gary”

Black, Jr., dead in an incident that has stirred homeowners and gun owners alike. 

“It’s just heartbreaking. My dad was a hero,” Hayashi said in the exclusive interview. “My son wouldn’t be here if it

wasn’t for him. I don’t think any of us would be here.” 

Though police and the family’s attorney have already discussed some of what allegedly happened inside the

Montview Blvd. home early Monday morning, Hayashi’s recounting is the most-detailed first-person account of the

Hayashi says he was asleep early that morning when he was awoken by a woman standing in his bedroom

incident so far. 

doorway. 

and the bathroom lights on. 

Hayashi said. 

“And she starts saying to me, ‘My son is on drugs and he has your baby,’” Hayashi said. 

He’d never seen the woman before. And as he looked over her shoulder, he says he saw another man in the house

“I immediately just shot into the bathroom to find this naked guy soaking wet &choking my son, biting his left ear,”

He said he pressed his thumb against the man’s throat to get him to release his jaw from the boy’s ear, then had to

jam his thumb “up to the first knuckle” into the man’s eye socket. 

“When he didn’t squeal in pain or anything, I got even more worried,” Hayashi said. 

But the man, who has been identified by the coroner's office as 26-year-old Dajon Harper, let the boy go and

Hayashi says he was able to flip the man out of the bathtub. 

Black was there with him in the bathroom, apparently having woken up and confronted the intruder just before

Hayashi awoke. The two struggled with the intruder before Black, whom Hayashi says has a concealed carry

permit, used a smaller carry weapon to shoot the intruder twice in the torso, according to Hayashi. 

What happened next will forever change the life of Hayashi, who had been close to him for so long he called him

“Dad.” 

“My dad exited the bathroom, went around the corner, and I immediately heard multiple shots, which I thought was

my dad engaging these other people in the house,” Hayashi said. “There was a pause, and then I hear people start

screaming, ‘Police!’ and I hear people enter the house. And my son starts screaming, ‘I’m here with my dad. This

crazy guy tried to attack me.’” 

Hayashi says he handed his son to an officer but was then forced out of his home. 

“And as I turned the corner, my dad is face down &and he’s handcuffed. And I reached down and –I don’t

remember if I touched his shoulder or his face –but he looked at me and I got pushed off by an officer out the

door,” Hayashi said. 

As he was outside trying to get a blanket for his son while police were taking him to a squad car, Hayashi says he

saw the same woman who had woken him up minutes earlier standing across the street screaming, “You shot my

baby!” 

Hayashi and his mother were taken to a police station, where they had to wait for hours before being told that

Black was dead, he said. But he says he already knew. 

“I knew when I touched him he was gone or almost gone,” Hayashi said. “I was sitting in a police car outside and

never saw EMS come back out of the house, so I already knew my dad was dead.” 

Aurora Police Chief Nick Metz issued a new video statement on Wednesday about the shooting and subsequent

fallout in which he said the department has wanted to keep the integrity of the investigation intact while getting

people as much information as can be released. But he also said that some information that has come out so far

about the incident has been wrong. 

“Even with that, we remain incredibly frustrated that we are not able to get that information out to you in a more

timely manner,” Metz said. “And obviously, much of that information, particularly as it pertains to this situation, has

been inaccurate.” 

Thursday to discuss the incident further. 

Metz didn’t point out which information was inaccurate, however. Aurora police intend to hold a press conference

But Black’s family’s attorney, Siddhartha Rathod, said Tuesday that police shot Black from outside of the home

–something Hayashi hinted at in Wednesday’s interview as well, along with other facets to the story he says don’t

completely add up, including the “chaotic” scene described by Metz in a police news release from Monday

afternoon. 

“I was told that he was told to drop the weapon and he didn’t. &I was told that by the commander or the assistant

chief,” Hayashi said. “They heard gunfire but they shot the first thing they saw moving, in my opinion, although all

the officers’ spent cartridges were outside of the house. And judging by the line of fire, had they missed him, they

could have shot me or my son through the wall.” 

Hayashi said he wants Aurora police to release body camera footage from every officer at the scene that day. And

after learning that the officer had been involved in a shooting in late June, Hayashi said he doesn’t think the officer

who shot his stepfather should have been there that night in the first place. 

“I want to see them all –not just the shooting officers’ [body cameras],” he said. “I want answers. I want the truth. I

want accountability.” 

after his sisters. 

He says that Aurora police should have known who lived at the house: he says his mother has made about 50

quilts for the department and that officers used to get called there all the time years ago because a prowler was

“It happened for years, to the point where officers used to mock my mother as they were standing in the living

room and my mom’s pointing –he’s walking down the driveway,” Hayashi said. 

His mother is “a wreck,” according to Hayashi. Black’s four grandchildren were “his world.” 

“It’s just disgust and shame. Sunday morning, had you asked my son what he thought about police officers, he

would have told you they are the baddest dudes ever,” Hayashi said, noting that the boy had been at a police camp

a week earlier. “Now all he can think about is police shot his grandfather. And he saw his grandfather handcuffed

and he can’t understand why they wouldn’t help him. He’s just traumatized.” 

Hayashi says his view of police has changed too, despite having family members who were officers and Black

being a Vietnam veteran with a Bronze Star and Purple Heart. 

“I’ve always respected police &I know what they do and what they have to go through,” Hayashi said. “I’m a little

less in favor of them at the moment. I want my dad, you know.” 

Despite the tenuous current relationship with police, Hayashi says he wants everyone to know his stepfather was a

“He lived a hero; he died a hero. I’d be dead, my son would be dead. My mom, my daughter –we’d all be dead if it

hero. 

wasn’t for him.” 

Please note: This content carries a strict local market embargo. If you share the same market as the contributor of

this article, you may not use it on any platform. 
 
 


 
When a nude stranger broke into his Colorado home and tried to drown his 11-year-old grandson, Richard “Gary”

Black bolted into action, grabbing his gun and killing the unrelenting intruder. Soon, Black would be dead too—at

the hands of local police. 

“This is a horror movie scenario,” Siddhartha Rathod, who is representing Black’s family, told The Denver Post.

“There’s no question Mr. Black is a hero, that Mr. Black saved his grandson’s life. This truly is a tragedy.” 

It all began early Monday morning, when a naked man pushed through Black’s front door and entered the Aurora

home. The intruder pulled the sleeping 11-year-old off the couch, then attempted to strangle him and drown him in

Black, a 73-year-old decorated war veteran, fought back with his stepson, Chad Hayashi, but the naked man

refused to back down, continuing to attack the boy and smashing a vase over Black’s head. The grandfather, who

had a concealed-carry permit, then fatally shot the intruder with his 9mm pistol, an attorney for his family told The

a bathtub. 

Denver Post. 

The situation then took an unthinkably tragic turn. When Aurora Police Department officers arrived at the scene at

about 1:30 a.m., a cop shot and killed Black, whom authorities said was still armed. The department later issued a

statement saying the scene was “chaotic and violent” when cops arrived. 

Black was taken to the hospital after he was shot, and later died. The man who entered his home was found dead

on the floor of the bathroom. 

Black was a former Army lieutenant and received a Purple Heart and Bronze Star for fighting in the Vietnam War.

After the war, he became an Internal Revenue Service agent and was a certified public accountant in Colorado. 

“He was a wonderful family man who loved spending time with his grandchildren and caring for his garden,”

Black’s half-sister Elisa Black-Taylor told The Denver Post. “He will be remembered as a hero, both for his service to

his country as well as to the family who loved him.” 

The officer who killed Black is on administrative reassignment with pay. He is currently under investigation for

another fatal shooting that occurred about a month ago, Rathod told The Daily Beast. The lawyer added that

typically, officers under investigation are placed on administrative duty, but this one was back in the field. 

Aurora police posted a statement on the department’s Facebook page Tuesday, saying it is “conducting a

comprehensive investigation” in conjunction with the Denver Police Department and the 17th Judicial District. 

“We continue to methodically collect evidence, interview witnesses, and review all available recordings, to include

the body worn cameras of all involved officers,” said the statement from Nicholas Metz, Aurora’s police chief. 

A police department spokesperson declined to comment further. Authorities have tentatively scheduled a press

conference for Thursday afternoon. 

“Aurora is going to need to come out and say what happened,” Rathod said. 
 
 

Tragic mistakes were not criminal - Denver Post, The (CO) - December
16, 2018 - page 3D
December 16, 2018 | Denver Post, The (CO) | TJ Hutchinson TJ Hutchinson, The Denver Post | Page 3D

Richard Gary B lack after he saved his grandson from
T he Aurora police shooting of 73-year-old Richard Gary B lack
a violent home intruder ranks as one of the most poignant local tragedies of the year. But it's not
a tragedy with a villain. Adams County District Attorney Dave Young was right to reject criminal
charges this month against the officer who pulled the trigger.

Even so, the fact that police aren't criminally liable for killing an innocent man doesn't always mean
they did everything possible to avoid that outcome. And we would hope Aurora police's internal
investigation acknowledges that fact in this case.

A glaring lapse in the police response -- or so it seems to us -- was their failure to identify
themselves in the chaos of those early morning hours of July 30.

Part of that chaos is on display in police body camera footage released to the public; it is also
recounted in multiple interviews in the district attorney's 26-page report. A seemingly crazed,
naked man -- later identified as Dajon Harper -- broke through the door of the home where Black,
his wife and his stepson lived and attacked Black's 11-year-old grandson, who was staying with
them that weekend. Other people from a raucous party across the street followed Harper into the
house.

Black shot and killed Harper after a melee in the bathroom during which the grandson was being
strangled and Black was apparently struck on the head with a vase.

By this time, several officers were at the front door. T hey heard the shots and observed Black
emerging into view seconds later carrying a gun (for which he had a permit) and a flashlight. Police
ordered Black several times to drop his gun before Officer Drew Limbaugh shot him several times.
Neither the video nor the DA's report indicate they ever shouted "police."

As the district attorney explains, police had no way of knowing that Black was not the intruder
himself bent on further violence. And it was reasonable to believe that Black "presented a threat to
the officers because he did not drop the weapon and could shoot at any moment."

But the DA also concedes that "perhaps Mr. Black did not know that it was police standing at his
front door." It was dark outside and he undoubtedly was in a high pitch of adrenaline and
confusion. Significantly, he never raised his gun at police. He raised his flashlight.

Black, a decorated Vietnam veteran, had substantial hearing loss, according to family attorneys, so
it's possible he didn't hear the officers' commands and wouldn't have heard them shout "police" in
any case. But nobody can say for sure, and the alternative is also possible: Shouting "police" might
have helped him understand what was going on.

In response to the shooting of Black, State Sen. Rhonda Fields, D-Aurora, said she wants to create
statewide rules for evaluating when officers can return to work after a fatal shooting, since
Limbaugh had killed another man on June 27 who pointed a gun at police. She may be right that
such rules are needed, but Aurora already seems to have solid procedures in place. Police Chief
Nick Metz said Limbaugh met with psychologists and participated in a peer support program
before returning to duty two weeks after the first shooting.

With or without him on duty, police should have identified themselves that night. In fact, they
should always do so when their identify might not be obvious.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Denver Post Corp.

 

 
Click here for updates on this story 

Richard “Gary” Black. 

    Aurora, CO (KMGH) -- Family, friends and veterans gathered for an emotional funeral service Saturday honoring

Black is the Vietnam veteran who was mistakenly shot and killed by an Aurora police officer while defending his

own home against an intruder on July 30. 

Purple Heart and four-time Bronze Star recipient. 

“Richard 'Gary' Black was a hero in Vietnam and I believe he died a hero," said chaplain Mark Potter. Black was a

During that home invasion in July, attorneys say a naked man broke into the Black home and attacked their 11-

year-old grandson. 

That’s when Black grabbed his gun and shot the intruder. 

"He understood the meaning of defending our country,” said Sen. Rhonda Fields of Aurora, who attended the

funeral. “And then at the very end, he continued to be a strong soldier by defending his family." 

When officers arrived at the Black home, according to police chief Nick Metz –who also attended the funeral

Saturday –police in the front yard ordered Black to drop his weapon at least five times over the course of 13

But Black lost a lot of his hearing while serving his country in Vietnam. 

"He wasn't able to hear correctly and he had some sight problems," Potter said. “It's very tragic what happened

Despite the tragedy, hundreds gathered Saturday to celebrate a man who gave so much. 

“He's phenomenal,” Potter said. “A true hero. He was a hero coming out of that war, and he died a hero defending

The officer who shot and killed Black was involved in another shooting just months before fatally shooting Black.

In that case, the officer was placed on leave for less than a month, which has prompted state lawmakers to call for

tougher and more extended leave policies. 

Those same lawmakers are advocating for the release of all body camera video from the Black shooting as well. 

Please note: This content carries a strict local market embargo. If you share the same market as the contributor of

seconds. 

here." 

his family." 

this article, you may not use it on any platform. 
 
 


 
Click here for updates on this story 

    Aurora, CO (KMGH) -- The man who was fatally shot by police after he allegedly shot a man breaking into his

home has been identified by a family attorney as a veteran of the Vietnam War. 

Attorney Siddhartha Rathod said Richard "Gary" Black Jr. was shot and killed by Aurora police early Monday. 

Black was a former federal agent and a Purple Heart recipient, Rathod said. 

Around 1:30 a.m. Monday, Aurora police responded to a report that a man had broken into a home near E.

Montview Boulevard and Iola Street. 

Aurora Police Chief Nick Metz said in a news release Monday that arriving officers heard gunshots and ran into

Black, who lived in the home and was armed. An officer shot him and he died at a local hospital. 

Officers found a juvenile injured inside the home and a man shot dead on the floor of a bathroom. The child was

taken to the hospital for serious, but not life-threatening injuries that were caused by the intruder, Aurora police

said in Monday's release. 

into the home. 

Metz said Monday that Black, who was a resident of the home, is believed to have fatally shot the man who broke

Rathod said that the man who broke into the home was naked and attacked Black’s 11-year-old grandson by trying

to drown the boy in a bathtub. Rathod said Black fought the man off and eventually killed him. 

“Gary is absolutely the hero who saved his grandson’s life,” Rathod said. “His death is a tragic incident.” 

Rathod said the grandson has since been released from the hospital. 

In a newspaper clipping Rathod says the family provided, Black is seen being congratulated for earing the Bronze

Star, Army Commendation medal and a Purple heart. The article says Black received the medals for outstanding

service while serving in Vietnam with the 1st Infantry Division. 

Rathod said police fired from outside the home while Black was still inside the home. The officer who shot Black is

on paid administrative leave, as is standard. 

Aurora police said in a news release issued Tuesday evening that Chief Metz would be holding a press conference

along with the district attorney's office on Thursday to further discuss the case. 

"This incident was not only tragic, but incredibly heartbreaking for the involved family, the community, and our

Department," the release read, in part. "This makes it even more difficult in not being able to provide information at

this time as we are committed to being transparent and sharing information as soon as possible after a critical

Please note: This content carries a strict local market embargo. If you share the same market as the contributor of

incident." 

this article, you may not use it on any platform. 
 
 


 
A 73-year-old Aurora, Colo., man who fatally shot a naked intruder who broke into his home, only to be killed by one

of the police officers who responded, may not have heard orders to put down his gun because of a hearing

impairment, the police said Thursday. 

Early Monday morning, Aurora police officers approached a home in the northern part of the city where they

believed an intruder was trying to drown an 11-year-old child, Police Chief Nicholas Metz said at a news

conference. Officers heard gunshots from inside the home, and as they stood by the front door, they saw Richard

Black Jr., a resident of the home, with a gun in one hand and a flashlight in the other, he said. 

Mr. Black, known as Gary, did not obey at least five commands to drop his gun, Chief Metz said. As he walked

toward them, an officer fired four times, fatally shooting Mr. Black. 

“We don’t know why, but for whatever reason, Mr. Black did not drop the gun,” Chief Metz said. He said the family

had told him that Mr. Black had a significant hearing impairment from his time in the military, and it was possible

he may not have heard the officers’ orders. 

During the news conference, Chief Metz described footage captured by the body camera worn by the unidentified

police officer who fatally shot Mr. Black, a disabled Vietnam War veteran who received a Bronze Star and a Purple

Heart. It was the sixth officer-involved shooting this year by an Aurora police officer, officials said, and the second

time in just more than month that the officer who shot Mr. Black had fatally shot someone while on duty. 

Chief Metz said he met with the Black family Thursday morning and read a statement from them asking that the

body camera footage and 911 call from Mr. Black’s wife, Jeanette, not be released to the public. 

“The family desires space to grieve and does not wish to have the final and violent moments of Gary’s

distinguished life be his public legacy,” he said. 

The letter also said that the family acknowledged that responding officers were not given a description of the

intruder. The Associated Press previously quoted Siddhartha H. Rathod, a lawyer for the family, as saying that Mr.

Black’s wife had told officials the intruder was black and her husband and son were white. 

Mr. Rathod did not respond to a phone message or email on Thursday. 

Chad Hayashi, Mr. Black’s stepson, was asleep in his stepfather’s home Monday when he woke up to a commotion,

he told ABC News on Wednesday. 

He got up and found a woman in the home, who told him: “My son is on drugs and he has your baby,” Mr. Hayashi

told the station. He said he rushed to the bathroom, where he found a naked man soaking wet in the bathtub,

choking his son. 

the torso. 

Mr. Hayashi said he began hitting the intruder repeatedly until the man eventually released his son. The intruder

then attacked Mr. Black with a vase, Mr. Hayashi said, and Mr. Black pulled out a gun and shot the man twice in

After Mr. Black left the bathroom, Mr. Hayashi said he heard gunshots before screams of “police” and heard people

entering the home. 

Chief Metz said officers repeatedly commanded Mr. Black to drop his gun.He began walking toward them and

raised his hand, holding the flashlight. That is when the officer fired, Chief Metz said. Mr. Black died at a hospital. 

Officers found the dead intruder, identified as Dajon Harper, 26, of Denver, on the floor of the bathroom. Mr.

Hayashi and his son were in the bathtub, and the son was screaming that the intruder was the person who had

assaulted him, Chief Metz said. 

The officer who fired his gun has been placed on paid administrative leave pending an investigation by the Aurora

and Denver Police Departments. The officer, whose name the authorities did not release, was also involved in a

fatal shooting on June 27 , according to Officer Kenneth Forrest, a spokesman for the Aurora police. 

That day, officers investigated reports of a man with a gun in northwestern Aurora. He ran, the police said, and

officers ordered him to drop his weapon before fatally shooting him. One of the officers, the same one involved in

Monday’s shooting, was placed on paid administrative leave pending an investigation. 

Officer Forrest said that officer returned to his duties on July 15 after being cleared by the department’s

“We believe that this officer was ready to come back to work,” Chief Metz said Thursday. 

In the interview with ABC News, Mr. Hayashi said it was his stepfather’s actions that saved their family. 

“He lived a hero, he died a hero,” he said. “We’d all be dead if it wasn’t for him.” 

evaluations. 

Credit: Melissa Gomez 
 
 


 
Criminal charges will not be filed against a Colorado police officer who fatally shot an armed Vietnam War veteran

in July in an apparent case of mistaken identity, the Adams County District Attorney's office said Monday. 

There's no evidence to support that Officer Drew Limbaugh "engaged in reckless or criminally negligent conduct"

when he shot and killed Richard "Gary" Black, 73, while Black stood in the living room of his own home, District

Attorney Dave Young wrote in a letter to the Aurora Police Department. 

The case is the second fatal shooting of an armed civilian this summer in which Limbaugh has been cleared,

Young's letter states. 

The officer had returned to duty two weeks before he shot Black after an administrative leave following the death

in June of a man who "pointed a handgun at Officer Limbaugh and attempted to fire it, but was unable due to a

weapon malfunction," the letter states. 

Young wrote. 

Limbaugh underwent a psychological assessment, counseling and "firearms qualification" before returning to duty,

In the incident involving Black, Limbaugh made a "split-second decision based upon his assessment of the

circumstances surrounding the scene," the prosecutor wrote in his 26-page letter, which details 911 dispatch

audio, police body-camera video and witness interviews to account for its conclusion. 

Footage from Limbaugh's body camera was the "most critical" piece of evidence in the decision, Young wrote in a

letter that identified Limbaugh as the officer who fired the fatal shots during the encounter. Limbaugh joined the

department in 2015, he wrote. 

The police department on Monday released two body-camera videos of the shooting, both showing the moments

before Limbaugh shot Black. Officers thought Black was an intruder, police have said, and opened fire after he

didn't follow a command to drop the gun he was holding. Officials later learned Black had been protecting his

"The officer who shot Mr. Black currently remains in a non-enforcement role," Aurora Police Department Chief Nick

Metz said in a statement accompanying the videos. "With the release of the DA's declination letter, an internal

"This was a heartbreaking and tragic incident. Our thoughts and prayers remain with Mr. Black's family and those

family from an invader. 

investigation will begin." 

involved," Metz said. 

Black's family was "extremely disappointed" in the decision, according to a statement by his relatives' attorneys. 

"Mr. Black was a Vietnam veteran who served two tours of duty, earning four separate Bronze Stars for his service,

as well as a Purple Heart," the statement by the Rathod Mohamedbhai law firm says. "He was a dedicated family

man, and his last moments were spent heroically defending his family against intruders in his home. As the District

Attorney's report demonstrates, Mr. Black's death was an unnecessary tragedy." 

'A very, very violent and complex situation' 

Officers responding to reports of an intruder attacking a child on July 30 heard gunshots from inside Black's home

as they approached, Aurora police said in a written statement included with Monday's video release. 

Officers then saw a man with a gun in one hand and a flashlight in the other and told him to drop his weapon,

according to the statement. 

"For reasons unknown to those officers, the man did not respond to commands to drop the weapon and an officer

shot him," the statement reads. "At the time, the officers did not know the man was Mr. Black and he had just shot

the intruder who was viciously attacking his grandson." 

The intruder was identified by police and the coroner's office as Dajon Harper, 26. 

The incident began when Harper, naked, knocked repeatedly on the Blacks' door while everyone inside the house --

Black, his wife Jeanette and his 11-year-old grandson --- was asleep. 

Harper eventually knocked the door off its hinges and entered, then dragged the boy into the bathroom, police said. 

Jeanette Black called 911. She reported the attacker was in the bathroom hurting her grandson, and that there was

blood everywhere. 

"(Officers) were confronted by a very, very violent and complex situation, and within two minutes, if that, had to

make some very, very critical decisions," Metz said in August. 

"Officer Limbaugh stated he felt like he had to shoot the man, because it was not an option to 'wait and see what

happens,'" Young wrote in the letter to the police department. "He could not recall whether the man pointed the gun

at him." 

reads. 

Lawyers representing the Black family said in their statement that the body camera footage shows Black wasn't a

threat to officers and officers never identified themselves as law enforcement before shooting Black. 

"The District Attorney's report selectively emphasizes certain facts in order to justify its conclusion," the statement

The immediate moments before and after the attack 

Harper was attending a party across the street, and "began damaging cars right near the house, was acting

irrationally ... and at one point, he injured himself," Metz said days after the incident. 

After leaving the party, he made his way to the Blacks' residence. 

There were "probably upwards of 10 people at that house at one time before police got there," as other attendees

of the party tried to get Harper out of the residence. But he locked the door behind him, Metz said. 

Officers proceeded from the living room, where Black had been killed, to the bathroom, where they still heard

screams. The boy and his father were found sitting in the bathtub, with Harper's dead body lying nearby. The boy

yelled to officers that it was Harper who attacked him and gave them a detailed account of the incident, Metz said. 

It is unclear if the boy's father had been there the whole time. 

The ordeal unfolded quickly. By the time officers made it to the bathroom, they had only been there for 2 minutes,

Black died from his injuries at University of Colorado Hospital. The Purple Heart recipient list shows Black received

27 seconds, Aurora police have said 

the award for his service in the Vietnam War. 
 
 


 
AURORA, Colo. 2018-- No criminal charges will be filed against an Aurora police officer who fatally shot a

homeowner in July, the 17th Judicial District announced Monday. 

Officer Drew Limbaugh shot and killed an armed homeowner, 73-year-old Richard "Gary" Black Jr., defending his

grandson against an intruder, Dajon Harper, on July 30. 

"Based on the evidence presented and the applicable Colorado law, there is no reasonable likelihood of success of

proving any crimes beyond a reasonable doubt at trial, District Attorney Dave Young wrote in his decision letter.

Therefore, no criminal charges will be filed against the law enforcement officer involved in this incident." 

Young added that "this review does not evaluate the appropriateness of the actions of the involved officers." 

Police arrived to 10609 E. Montview Blvd. shortly after 1:30 a.m. when they heard shots fired from inside the home

and soon encountered an armed man. 

After police arrived to the incident, they say they shot Black because he did not respond to their commands to drop

his gun. According to Blacks family, he had a severe hearing impairment due to the time he served in the military. 

Black was in the Army and fought in Vietnam. He earned a Purple Heart and the Bronze Star. 

When police went inside the home, they found the intruder, who was dead on the bathroom floor. Police said the

According to the letter released by the district attorney's office, Limbaugh fired three shots at Black following the

An attorney for the Black family previously said that he "died a hero by shooting and killing a naked intruder who

Black's stepson told ABC News that Harper was "naked and wet" and had his "son in a choke-hold with his right

intruder was fatally shot by Black, police said. 

commands to drop the gun. 

was trying to kill his 11-year-old grandson." 

arm" and biting the child's left ear. 

Black was honored with a military funeral in August. 

Limbaugh has been with Aurora police since June 2015. Police said he also killed a suspect in a shooting in June.

He returned to work 18 days after the incident and was also cleared in that shooting. 
 
 


 
DENVER (AP) - A Colorado lawmaker is crafting state legislation governing when police officers can return to work

after a fatal shooting following the highly publicized death of a homeowner killed by police during a break-in at his

house.  

soon.  

The case has raised criticism about how police handled the chaotic encounter with Richard "Gary" Black. The 73-

year-old was holding the gun he used to fatally shoot an intruder who attacked an 11-year-old boy in the middle of

the night when a police officer shot him.  

Prosecutors said this week the officer will not face charges in Black's death, but questions remain over whether he

returned to work on the graveyard shift too soon after another shooting.  

Aurora Police Officer Drew Limbaugh, who had three years' experience, had killed another man who pointed a gun

at police on June 27, and returned to duty about two weeks later. An attorney for Black's family thinks that was too

"Any officer should be given time to recover, time to heal," said Siddhartha Rathod. "Police officers are not military

personnel. The job is to protect and serve."  

State Sen. Rhonda Fields said she wants to create statewide requirements for evaluating when officers can return

to work. Fields, the assistant majority leader, became an activist after the 2005 murder of her son, Javad and his

fiancée Vivian Wolfe and later ran for the Legislature. Fields has met with organizations representing police chiefs

and sheriffs about her plans. She dropped a broad requirement that officers stay off duty for a set number of days

after receiving pushback from the officials.  

Fields said they worried that would hamper smaller departments, especially in rural areas. Instead, she is

considering a number of specific requirements, including psychiatric care and training on a gun range or in a

simulator.  

Some departments, including Denver Police, already use a similar process, she said.  

In Aurora, a police unit created two years ago creates an individual plan for each officer returning to work after a

shooting. A return plan may include counseling from peers or psychologists, simulator or live firearms training,

stress management techniques or other specific training.  

Police Chief Nick Metz defended Limbaugh's return to work after the shooting, saying Aurora far exceeded a

national police chiefs' association recommended for three days off after a shooting. Metz said Limbaugh met with

psychologists, received help through a peer support program and went through shooting range exercises with

trainers before returning to work after the first shooting.  

"The reality is ... we can't control what our officers are going to run into, whether it's 10 days after a shooting or two

years after a shooting," Metz said. "The situation dictates their response. And I believe this officer was ready to go

back."  

Prosecutors in Arapahoe County determined that Limbaugh's decision to shoot during the earlier encounter was

justified. They said a man wanted for firing a gun into the air pointed a handgun at Limbaugh and another officer

during a foot chase. The suspect attempted to fire at police but the gun malfunctioned, prosecutors said.  

Based on witness interviews and more than 90 videos captured by officers' body cameras, Adams County District

Attorney Dave Young said this week that Limbaugh will not face charges for shooting Black. The officer did not

know who Black was and fired when the homeowner refused police commands to drop his handgun, Young said.  

But the attorney for Black's family said prosecutors failed to note that Limbaugh and others officers never

identified themselves as police.  

Body camera footage released this week shows Black moving out of a darkened hallway to a lighted living room

while police shouted at him from outside the front door, where it was still dark. Police shouted "drop the gun," ''let

me see your hands" and "get your hands in the air" before Black raised his hand holding a flashlight. Limbaugh

After police entered the lighted home, Black told them that his son, grandson and "the perpetrator" were in the

fired three times.  

bathroom.  

Black had shot the intruder earlier and later heard unidentified people ordering him to put down a gun he legally

owned, he said. "No reasonable person should have dropped that firearm," Rathod said.  

"Had this officer been given the time to recover from the prior shooting, would he have announced himself and said

'Police'? Would that one word have saved Mr. Black's life? We won't know."  

Credit: By KATHLEEN FOODY, Associated Press 
 
 


 
The Colorado police officer who shot and killed a man in his home while he was protecting his 11-year-old

grandson from a naked intruder was also involved in a fatal June police shooting, according to The Denver Post.

The tragic shooting of Richard Black, a 73-year-old decorated Vietnam War veteran, happened after he shot dead

the intruder, identified late Wednesday as 26-year-old Dajon Harper. The cop who shot Black was also involved in a

fatal June 27 shooting at a motel, said Aurora Police, who have not identified the officer. In that shooting, cops

called to a man to drop his gun, but he fled and the officer fired and fatally struck the suspect. After that shooting,

the officer was placed on paid administrative leave—and the incident is still under investigation—but just over a

month later he was back on patrol and involved in the fatal shooting early Monday morning. Black, 73, and his

stepson tried to physically fight off the attacker but when they couldn’t stop him, Black retrieved a 9mm handgun

and killed the attacker. Cops had already been called to the scene and when they apparently saw an armed man

they shot him dead. 
 
 


 
A case of mistaken identity left a man dead after protecting his family from an invader.  

Officers were dispatched to an Aurora, Colorado home around 1:30 Monday morning. They heard gunshots coming

from inside the house, according to Aurora Police Department Chief Nick Metz.  

Upon entering, officers saw a dead body lying on the bathroom floor, and assumed he was a victim of the invasion.

Then, Metz said, they saw Richard "Gary" Black, 73, standing in the living room --- alive --- and armed. He was

perceived as the perpetrator, so they opened fire.  

But Black was not the invader. He lived there.  

Metz detailed the following events Thursday in a press conference: When officers arrived to the home, there was

yelling. A number of people were standing outside the home, including Black's wife. When officers passed her, she

said "he has a gun."  

hands up several times. 

Then, shots rung out from inside. Black emerged shortly after, with a gun in one hand and a flashlight in the other.

Standing by the front door, within 15 to 20 feet of Black, officers commanded Black to drop the weapon and put his

"We don't know why, but for whatever reason, Mr. Black did not drop the gun," Metz said. 

Black raised the flashlight, and it was then that an officer fired four rounds at him, he said.  

Black had just shot the intruder, identified by police and the coroner's office as 26-year-old Dajon Harper. Harper,

naked, continuously knocked on the Blacks' door, eventually knocking it off its hinges.  

Everyone in the house --- Black, his wife Jeanette and 11-year-old grandson --- was asleep. Harper went after the

grandson and dragged him into the bathroom, according to the APD. 

Metz did not go into detail about the attack, but said he was "violently assaulted." 

Mrs. Black called 911. She reported the attacker was in the bathroom hurting her grandson, and that there was

blood everywhere. 

Mrs. Black declined a request for comment by CNN. 

The officers did not realize Black was a resident until "further investigation," the APD's initial statement said.  

"(Officers) were confronted by a very, very violent and complex situation, and within two minutes, if that, had to

make some very, very critical decisions," Metz said. 

Harper was attending a party across the street, and "began damaging cars right near the house, was acting

irrationally ... and at one point, he injured himself," Metz said.  

After leaving the party, he made his way to the Blacks' residence.  

There were "probably upwards of 10 people at that house at one time before police got there," as other attendees

of the party tried to get Harper out of the residence. But he locked the door behind him, Metz said.  

Officers proceeded from the living room, where Black had been killed, to the bathroom, where they still heard

screams. The boy and his father were found sitting in the bathtub, with Harper's dead body lying nearby. The boy

yelled to officers that it was Harper who attacked him, and gave them a detailed account of the incident, Metz said.

It is unclear if the boy's father had been there the whole time.  

The ordeal unfolded quickly. By the time officers made it to the bathroom, they had only been there for two

minutes and 27 seconds, according to the APD.  

Black was transported to the University of Colorado Hospital, where he died from his injuries. The Purple Heart

recipient list shows that Black received the award for his time in the Vietnam war.  

The shooting is being investigated by the APD, the Denver Police Department and the 17th and 18th District

Attorney's Offices. The officer who killed Black has been placed on paid administrative leave, Metz said.  

"This incident was not only tragic, but incredibly heartbreaking for the involved family, the community, and our

department," the APD said in a Facebook post.  

"In order to conduct a comprehensive investigation, we continue to methodically collect evidence, interview

witnesses, and review all available recordings, to include the body worn cameras of all involved officers." 

Body camera footage and the 911 calls are being withheld while the investigation continues, as requested by the

district attorney's office and the family, Metz said. 

The department is also withholding the name of the officer who fired the shots to ensure his safety, an APD

"Any disrespect to law enforcement carried out in Mr. Black's name would be contrary to his wishes," the family

The unnamed officer, who is also a veteran, has been with the department for three years with no prior internal

spokesman told CNN.  

said in a statement.  

complaints, Metz said. 

"He's incredibly heartbroken over this situation. He being a veteran himself, and finding out what Mr. Black had

done to save his family ... has been devastating to him," he said.  

"We have assured the family that we are there for them in any way, shape or form that we can be. And we've

continued over these last few days to have regular communication with them, and have provided different types of

assistance over these last few difficult days." 

Metz confirmed that the officer was involved in another fatal shooting on June 27. He returned to work about two

and a half weeks later, while the investigation continued.  

Metz defended this decision, saying "He went through all the requirements that are part of our policy for officers to

adhere to prior to coming back after an officer-involved shooting."  

Black's family will be represented in court by Colorado-based law firm Rathod Mohamedbhai, LLC. The attorneys

Company / organization:

Name: University of Colorado; NAICS: 611310; Name: CNN; NAICS: 515210; Name:

Facebook Inc; NAICS: 518210, 519130; Name: Police Department-Denver CO; NAICS:

did not immediately respond to CNN's requests for comment. 
 
 


 
A 73-year-old Aurora, Colo., man who fatally shot a naked intruder who broke into his home, only to be killed by one

of the police officers who responded, may not have heard orders to put down his gun because of a hearing

impairment, the police said Thursday. 

Early Monday morning, Aurora police officers approached a home in the northern part of the city where they

believed an intruder was trying to drown an 11-year-old child, Police Chief Nicholas Metz said at a news

conference. Officers heard gunshots from inside the home, and as they stood by the front door, they saw Richard

Black Jr., a resident of the home, with a gun in one hand and a flashlight in the other, he said. 

Mr. Black, known as Gary, did not obey at least five commands to drop his gun, Chief Metz said. As he walked

toward them, an officer fired four times, fatally shooting Mr. Black. 

"We don't know why, but for whatever reason, Mr. Black did not drop the gun," Chief Metz said. He said the family

had told him that Mr. Black had a significant hearing impairment from his time in the military, and it was possible

he may not have heard the officers' orders. 

During the news conference, Chief Metz described footage captured by the body camera worn by the unidentified

police officer who fatally shot Mr. Black, a disabled Vietnam War veteran who received a Bronze Star and a Purple

Heart. It was the sixth officer-involved shooting this year by an Aurora police officer, officials said, and the second

time in just more than month that the officer who shot Mr. Black had fatally shot someone while on duty. 

Chief Metz said he met with the Black family Thursday morning and read a statement from them asking that the

body camera footage and 911 call from Mr. Black's wife, Jeanette, not be released to the public. 

"The family desires space to grieve and does not wish to have the final and violent moments of Gary's

distinguished life be his public legacy," he said. 

The letter also said that the family acknowledged that responding officers were not given a description of the

intruder. The Associated Press previously quoted Siddhartha H. Rathod, a lawyer for the family, as saying that Mr.

Black's wife had told officials the intruder was black and her husband and son were white. 

Mr. Rathod did not respond to a phone message or email on Thursday. 

Chad Hayashi, Mr. Black's stepson, was asleep in his stepfather's home Monday when he woke up to a commotion,

he told ABC News on Wednesday. 

He got up and found a woman in the home, who told him: "My son is on drugs and he has your baby," Mr. Hayashi

told the station. He said he rushed to the bathroom, where he found a naked man soaking wet in the bathtub,

choking his son. 

the torso. 

entering the home. 

Mr. Hayashi said he began hitting the intruder repeatedly until the man eventually released his son. The intruder

then attacked Mr. Black with a vase, Mr. Hayashi said, and Mr. Black pulled out a gun and shot the man twice in

After Mr. Black left the bathroom, Mr. Hayashi said he heard gunshots before screams of "police" and heard people

Chief Metz said officers repeatedly commanded Mr. Black to drop his gun.He began walking toward them and

raised his hand, holding the flashlight. That is when the officer fired, Chief Metz said. Mr. Black died at a hospital. 

Officers found the dead intruder, identified as Dajon Harper, 26, of Denver, on the floor of the bathroom. Mr.

Hayashi and his son were in the bathtub, and the son was screaming that the intruder was the person who had

assaulted him, Chief Metz said. 

The officer who fired his gun has been placed on paid administrative leave pending an investigation by the Aurora

and Denver Police Departments. The officer, whose name the authorities did not release, was also involved in a

fatal shooting on June 27, according to Officer Kenneth Forrest, a spokesman for the Aurora police. 

That day, officers investigated reports of a man with a gun in northwestern Aurora. He ran, the police said, and

officers ordered him to drop his weapon before fatally shooting him. One of the officers, the same one involved in

Monday's shooting, was placed on paid administrative leave pending an investigation. 

Officer Forrest said that officer returned to his duties on July 15 after being cleared by the department's

"We believe that this officer was ready to come back to work," Chief Metz said Thursday. 

In the interview with ABC News, Mr. Hayashi said it was his stepfather's actions that saved their family. 

"He lived a hero, he died a hero," he said. "We'd all be dead if it wasn't for him." 

Follow Melissa Gomez on Twitter: @MelissaGomez004. 

evaluations. 

Photograph 

Nicholas Metz, chief of police in Aurora, Colo., discussed the death of Richard Black Jr., who was killed by officers

on Monday. Mr. Black had just killed an intruder when the police arrived. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID

ZALUBOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 
 
 


Middlesex DA identifies man shot dead by cop in - Boston Herald (MA) -
February 10, 2018 - page 9
February 10, 2018 | Boston Herald (MA) | BRIAN DOWLING | Volume 36 | Issue 41 | Page 9

Authorities investigating an officer-involved shooting in Reading last weekend have released the
name of the man who was shot and killed.

T he man shot Saturday afternoon while fleeing from police officers was Alan Greenoug h
Reading, a spokeswoman for Middlesex District Attorney Marian T . Ryan said yesterday.

Alan Greenoug h, 43, of

“T his remains an open and active investigation being conducted by the Middlesex District
Attorney’s Office, Massachusetts State Police assigned to the Middlesex District Attorney’s Office
and Reading Police,” said spokeswoman Meghan Kelly, who indicated a full report on the incident
would be released.

Greenough was born in New Hampshire but raised in North Reading, which is where he lived until
he moved to Reading five years ago, according to his online obituary.

T he obituary made no mention of the incident leading to his death other than to say he “died
unexpectedly” on Feb. 3.

“Alan was his own person with love for the simple life,” the obituary read. “He was kind, thoughtful
and sensitive. Alan had a great love for animals. He loved his family and would put anyone before
himself. Alan loved to fish and enjoyed taking long walks through Harold Parker with his beloved
dog Buddy. He had a heart of gold and will be missed but never forgotten by all.”

T he obituary said Greenough is survived by his parents, two siblings and a host of other relatives.
His funeral was held yesterday at St. Theresa’s Church in North Reading, where Greenough was a
member, according to the obituary.

A relative of Greenough reached in New Hampshire said family members were unavailable for
comment.

Greenough was shot by a Reading cop after police say he evaded officers who went to his Main
Street home to investigate a past assault involving a household member.

He was sent to Lahey Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. T he name of the officer who shot
Greenough has not been released.

— brian.dowling@bostonherald.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Boston Herald

 
Man identified in Reading police-involved shooting - Associated Press
State Wire: Massachusetts (MA) - February 9, 2018
February 9, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Massachusetts (MA)

READING, Mass. (AP) — Authorities have identified the man who was shot and killed by police in
Reading earlier this month.

T he Middlesex District Attorney announced Friday the man was 43-year-old Alan Greenoug h
Reading. No new details of the case were revealed and the matter remains under investigation.

Alan Greenoug h of

T he district attorney's office said last week that Reading Police responded to a residence on Main
Street on Feb. 3 for a report of an alleged assault involving the Greenough and a household
member.

T he office says when police arrived, the man fled. A Reading officer found him and fired shots,
wounding Greenough, who later died at Lahey Hospital.

Officers had responded to the same house the day before for a reported altercation involving the
same man, who fled when police arrived.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
It's unlikely anyone will ever know what went - Villager, The
(Northborough-Southborough, MA) - August 24, 2018 - page A2
August 24, 2018 | Villager, The (Northborough-Southborough, MA) | Eli Sherman esherman@wickedlocal.com
| Article | Page A2

It's unlikely anyone will ever know what went through the mind of Weymouth Police Sgt. Michael
Chesna in the moments leading up to his death.

But court documents detailing the deadly July 15 morning suggest Chesna had his gun drawn and
didn't fire, even as his alleged killer charged him with a rock.

Whatever his reasons, the decision not to pull the trigger is feeding into a national debate
surrounding police-involved shootings, arguably one of the most-divisive community-based issues
in modern times.

"When (officers) have to make a decision, they have to make it in a split second, and if there's
hesitation -- hesitation that they might be the next case nationwide that takes their livelihood, their
family and their reputation away from them -- hesitation gets officers harmed," said Weymouth
Police Chief Richard Grimes during a vigil for Chesna.

In Massachusetts, Chesna is the sixth police officer to die by gunfire in the last decade and the
second to die this year, according to Officer Down Memorial Page, a nonprofit that tracks line-of-
duty deaths nationwide.

Marshfield Police Chief Phil T avares says the job has become more dangerous, citing an increasing
"disrespect for authority." And Grimes believes the widespread criticism makes the job more
difficult, especially for beat police.

"T his is a bad message to send to the men and women that are on the street every day just like
Michael," Grimes said.

T he sentiment is echoed among rank and file, including Officer Edward O'Brien, of the Weymouth
Police Department, who expressed his frustration in a July 22 Facebook post.

"We make mistakes like everyone else. We're not perfect and we have bad apples like every other
profession," he wrote. "T he country has labeled and vilified police officers to a point that a small
but vocal portion of the public thinks that all officers are crooked, uneducated and bullies. Take a
look at the facts. None of that narrative is true and I'm done trying to apologize for it."

Much of the public scrutiny has been building for years and stems from the hundreds of fatal
shootings by law enforcement reported each year in the United States, which advocates argue
happen without much accountability.

"Accountability for police use of lethal force is severely lacking in the United States," according to a
2015 report by Amnesty International, a human rights organization.

In the wake of the 2014 fatal shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, which sparked
protests across the country and the formation of Black Lives Matter and subsequently Blue Lives
Matter, T he Washington Post started tracking fatal shootings by police.

As of July 9, the newspaper reported 576 people across the country had been shot and killed by
police in 2018, which is 10 more than the same period last year. T he number of deaths during 2017
totaled 987, according to the database. In Massachusetts, 25 people have been shot and killed by
police since 2015, which includes Alan Greenoug h
February.

Alan Greenoug h, who was shot dead by Reading Police in

Unlike the shooting of Chesna, however, there's not much known publicly about Greenough's
killing. Fatal shootings by law enforcement in Massachusetts are investigated by district attorney
offices and the Massachusetts State Police. And because no charges are brought against the
dead, public information about the shooting isn't released until charges are filed, or the
investigation concludes.

A Middlesex DA spokeswoman told Wicked Local on July 25 the Greenough investigation, which
started in February, remains open and ongoing. She could not provide a timeline for when it might
come to a close. T he opaque investigative process fuels public perception -- deserved or not --
that there's a lack of impartial and independent accountability when it comes to fatal shootings by
police, according to advocates.

"T he fact that investigations are handled internally and that prosecutors have to maintain good
working relationships with the police as well as fulfill their duty to investigate and prosecute police
use of lethal force, has led to calls being made for independent investigations and prosecutors,"
according to Amnesty International.

Massachusetts is also one of nine states without laws on the use of lethal force by law
enforcement officers, according to Amnesty International, which violates international standards,
according to a special report done for the United Nations Human Rights Council.

"T he police in any society will at some point be confronted with a situation where they have to
decide whether to use force and, if so, how much. Enacting an adequate domestic legal framework
for such use of force by police officials is thus a state obligation, and the states that do not do this
are in violation of their international obligations," according to the report.

T he tension between local police and their communities, however, is not absolute, and Chesna's
death is evidence. Thousands of Massachusetts residents attended a vigil for Chesna. And letters
and social media posts detailing appreciation and gratitude for police have flooded into the Norfolk
County community.

Following the sargeant's death, Gov. Charlie Baker, a Republican, signed into law a new $2 fee on
rental cars to fund more police training and new recruits. T he new fee will fund up to $10 million
each year, which Baker -- who generally opposes new taxes and fees -- told the State House News

Service was needed, especially after the deaths of Chesna and other officers in recent years.

"I know this bill isn't named after anybody, but if it were to be named after someone, I think we
would choose to name it after the men and women who have been killed in the line of duty and
their families," Baker said.

For Grimes, moving forward, he's asking the public for empathy.

"T he courts, the politicians and everybody in this country should put themselves in that split-second
decision and you tell me," he said.

Eli Sherman is an investigative and in-depth reporter at Wicked Local and GateHouse Media. Email
him at esherman@wickedlocal.com, or follow him on T witter @Eli_Sherman.

Copyrig ht, 2018 Villag er, The. All Rights Reserved.

 
Man fatally shot by officer ID'd - Reading Advocate, The (MA) - February
14, 2018 - page A1
February 14, 2018 | Reading Advocate, The (MA) | Article | Page A1

T he man who was shot and killed by a Reading police officer last weekend has been identified as
Alan Greenoug h, 43, of Reading, reports the Middlesex District Attorney's office.
Alan Greenoug h

T his remains an open and active investigation being conducted by the Middlesex District Attorney's
Office, Massachusetts State Police assigned to the Middlesex District Attorney's Office and
Reading Police. A full report will be released at the conclusion of the investigation.

At approximately 3:45 p.m. on Feb. 3, Reading Police responded to a Main Street residence in
Reading for a report of an alleged assault involving a 43-year-old male and a household member.
T he reporting victim was no longer in the residence. Officers were familiar with the location and
had responded Friday night for a reported altercation involving the same male. By the time officers
arrived on scene on Friday the male had fled. Police searched the area and had been unsuccessful
in attempts to locate him.

Upon arrival at this same residence officers located the male allegedly involved in the dispute inside
the home, which was dead-bolted from the inside. Officers eventually gained access to the
residence; however, the male had fled the home. Multiple officers subsequently sought to locate
the male. At approximately 4:33 p.m. shots were fired by a Reading Officer wounding the male.
T he male was transported to Lahey Hospital where he was subsequently pronounced deceased.
T he officer was also transported to an area hospital, treated and released.

Copyrig ht, 2018 Reading  Advocate, The. All Rights Reserved.

 

Report: Bowdon uncooperative but unarmed when - Bulletin (Nogales,
AZ) - August 1, 2018
August 1, 2018 | Bulletin (Nogales, AZ) | Brandon Messick Today’s News-Herald

Details emerged Wednesday in the death of a Patagonia man who was fatally shot by Lake
Havasu City Police officers last week, and according to detectives investigating the case, 56-year-
old B rent C. B owdon

B rent C. Bowdon was noncompliant but unarmed when he was killed during a tense standoff.

T he Kingman Police Department began its investigation July 25 into the death of Bowdon, who was
shot by three Havasu police officers during an encounter in front of his home in that city. KPD
announced its initial findings Wednesday in a news release that was accompanied by the release of
footage from a police body camera worn at the time of the shooting.

T he investigation revealed that Bowdon and his wife were drinking during the hours before the
shooting, which occurred shortly before 3 a.m. T he two became embroiled in an argument which
became prolonged, lasting for several hours. According to Rusty Cooper, KPD spokesman, the
argument led to Bowdon taking his wife's cell phone and dialing 911. Bowdon did not speak during
the call, according to Cooper, but dispatchers could hear yelling and arguing in the background.

Officers arrived at the scene and were approached by Bowdon's wife, Denise Bowdon. When Brent
Bowdon emerged from his home's garage, Cooper said, he approached officers with one hand
behind his back. According to the news release, Bowdon was heavily intoxicated at the time of the
incident, and despondent after the argument with his wife.

"He doesn't have a gun," Denise Bowdon told the responding officers. "He's pretending. He
doesn't have a gun."

T he officers repeatedly told Brent Bowdon to show them his hands, indicated in the nearly seven-
minute police body camera footage from the incident.

According to Cooper, the officers involved in the shooting were identified as Earl Chalfant, Angus
McCabe and Cameron Hollis. Chalfant is an officer with 16 years of experience, the release said.
McCabe has been a Lake Havasu City Police officer for about one year. Hollis has been on the
department's roster for about seven months.

"Show us your hands," the officers told Bowdon. "We can figure out what's going on, it's going to
be alright. Show us your hands and we'll be good. Do you have a gun on you right now?"

Bowdon indicated that he was armed, and continued to approach officers. When ordered to halt,
Bowdon appeared to refuse even after having been informed that he would be fired upon.

"We're here to help you," an officer could be heard saying to Bowdon in the body camera footage.
"If you drop the gun and show us your hands, we can figure out what's going on. We don't want

you to get hurt. Show us your hands and drop the gun, and put your hands behind your back, we
can talk this out. It doesn't have to end this way."

Bowdon stopped his approach within about 15 feet of Lake Havasu City Police officers, the release
said, and officers again ordered him to drop any weapon that may be on his person. Bowdon
allegedly began to approach officers once more.

"Brent, show us your hands and stop moving," an officer told Bowdon. "If you keep getting closer,
you will be shot."

Bowdon's voice was distant as he replied, and may have told officers to "shoot" at about five
minutes into the footage as he continued to approach them.

"We don't want to shoot you," one of the officers told Bowdon.

"We just want to figure out what's going on," another added. "Your wife doesn't want this."

Denise Bowdon could be heard in the recording at about 6:04 into the footage, begging her
husband to stop.

T he officers attempted to de-escalate the situation as they told Bowdon that his family loved him.
T he officers' last words to Bowdon reflected on his work with the Patagonia Volunteer Fire
Department. It was then that Bowdon approached once more.

T he officers opened fire, Cooper said, fearing that Bowdon was indeed armed.

According to Cooper, the officers fired 10 rounds, striking Bowdon multiple times. T he officers
requested assistance from Lake Havasu City paramedics immediately after the shooting occurred,
but Bowdon was pronounced dead at the scene.

Bowdon was a former president of the Patagonia Regional Business Coalition and, until this year,
owner of two Patagonia businesses. He was also a fire captain for Patagonia Volunteer Fire and
Rescue.

T he investigation into Bowdon's death remains ongoing, and additional details will be released as
they become available.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Nog ales International. All rights reserved.

 
Kingman police investigating fatal shooting of - Associated Press State
Wire: Arizona (AZ) - August 2, 2018
August 2, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Arizona (AZ)

LAKE HAVASU CIT Y, Ariz. (AP) — Investigators say a Patagonia man who was fatally shot by Lake
Havasu City police last month was unarmed although he told officers he had a gun.

B rent B owdon.
Kingman police are investigating the July 25 death of 56-year-old B rent B owdon

Police say Bowdon ignored repeated commands to show officers his hands and drop any
weapons, and kept his right hand behind his back.

Investigators say Bowdon appeared to be intoxicated and walked to within about 15 feet of police.

Fearing that Bowdon was armed, three officers fired 10 rounds.

Investigators say Bowdon was hit several times and was declared dead at the scene, but didn't
have a gun.

Police had responded to the Lake Havasu City home after getting a 911 call from Bowdon and
hearing him argue loudly with his wife.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

Patagonia man fatally shot by Lake Havasu police - Bulletin (Nogales,
AZ) - July 26, 2018
July 26, 2018 | Bulletin (Nogales, AZ) | Arielle Zionts Nogales Internatonal

B rent B owdon, a well-known Patagonia resident and businessman, was shot and killed by police in
B rent B owdon
Lake Havasu City after they responded to an apparent domestic disturbance.

Officers from the Lake Havasu City Police Department were dispatched to a local home around
2:51 a.m. Wednesday in response to an open 911 call in which a man and woman could be heard
screaming at each other, according to a news release by the Kingman Police Department, which is
investigating the shooting.

T hree police officers made contact with Bowdon, 56, and "discharged their weapons," according to
the release. Bowdon was pronounced dead on the scene around 3:19 a.m. His wife, who was also
at the scene, was reportedly unharmed.

T he officers, who were not injured, are now on administrative leave, according to the release. T he
names of the officers have not yet been released, according to the Today's News-Herald, a Lake
Havasu City-based sister paper to the Nogales International.

Robert Norfolk, who lives on Rainbow Lane where the shooting took place, told the News-Herald
that he heard the incident from his bedroom widow.

"It seemed like a domestic disturbance," Norfolk said. "T he cops showed up and a woman walked
toward them. T hen a man started walking toward them … the police kept telling him, 'Put the gun
down', 'Show us your hands'. He refused and kept approaching."

Lake Havasu City police have killed eight people in the past 14 years, the News-Herald reported. In
the past 10 years, no officer has been found to have wrongfully applied deadly force.

Bowdon was the president of the Patagonia Regional Business Coalition, a group that promotes
local businesses, said PRBC member Gerry Isaac.

"I would describe him as a person who was very devoted to Patagonia, very devoted to the welfare
of Patagonia," Isaac said.

Bowdon owned the DMB RV Ranch, an RV park that serves Arizona Mining workers/contractors
and other visitors to the area. His earthmoving company D&M Excavating was a contractor with
Arizona Mining before he sold the business to Rummel Construction, a Scottsdale-based company
that now contracts with the mine, Isaac said.

"I think everyone is really shocked and doesn't really know what to make of it," Isaac said of the
town's reaction to Bowdon's death.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Nog ales International. All rights reserved.

 
Lake Havasu City officers cleared in fatal - Associated Press State Wire:
Arizona (AZ) - September 21, 2018
September 21, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Arizona (AZ)

KINGMAN, Ariz. (AP) — Three Lake Havasu City police officers have been cleared in the fatal
shooting of a man earlier this year.

T he announcement Thursday by the Mohave County Sheriff's Office ends the investigation into
B rent B owdon.
the death of 56-year-old B rent B owdon

T oday's News-Herald reports the three officers — Earl Chalfant, Camaron Hollis and Angus
McCabe — had been placed on paid administrative leave following the July 25 shooting. T hey
returned to duty in early August.

Authorities say Bowdon advanced on officers with one hand behind his back and ignored
commands to stop. He was shot 10 times.

An investigation by the Kingman Police Department found Bowdon was unarmed but that he
might have provoked the use of deadly force.

Bowden was involved in the business, mining and firefighting communities in Patagonia.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Patagonia marshal says he didn’t criticize probe - Bulletin (Nogales, AZ)
- July 30, 2018
July 30, 2018 | Bulletin (Nogales, AZ) | Arielle Zionts Nogales International

Patagonia Marshal Joseph Patterson is insisting he did not criticize the ongoing investigation into
the fatal police shooting of a Patagonia resident after he was quoted by a Lake Havasu City
newspaper as saying his confidence in the probe "is low" and that he has questions about the
investigative process.

"I have questions and I have (my) free speech and that is that. Just like the paper can print what
they want. First Amendment, it is on the Constitution. I am certain you have read it," Patterson
wrote in an email to the NI on Monday in which he rejected the idea that he had spoken critically of
the investigation

"If you want to talk to me about your sister paper's 'headline' or 'click bait,' do not bother," he
wrote in regard to an article published last weekend by the Today's News-Herald, a Lake Havasu-
based paper that is partly owned by Wick Communications, which owns the NI.

T he story, "Patagonia town marshal blasts Havasu police shooting investigation," quoted an email
from Patterson regarding the Kingman Police Department's investigation into an incident on July
25 in which Lake Havasu City Police Department officers fatally shot 56-year-old B rent B owdon
B rent B owdon
of Patagonia while responding to an apparent domestic disturbance call in their jurisdiction. KPD,
which is leading the investigation, has yet to release the names of the officers or say why they shot
Bowdon, a well-known Patagonia businessman.

"I could care less how they portray me with a headline. All the hate calls and support calls, I answer
them. Some have been entertaining and I am not scared of Havasu (Police Department) or
anyone," Patterson wrote on Monday.

T he marshal told the News-Herald that he went to Lake Havasu City, approximately 370 miles
from Patagonia, the same day as the early-morning shooting to secure Bowdon's rented home
and belongings, and drive Bowdon's wife back to Patagonia. T he following day, he reportedly
returned and began asking questions, finally reaching a Kingman Police Department detective as
he attempted to glean information about the case for Bowdon's family.

T he detective exhibited an "uncaring attitude," he told the paper, adding: "It rubbed me the wrong
way as a chief of police, and I would hope he does not treat other victims' family that way."

At another point in the story, Patterson was quoted as saying he was waiting for the facts to be
documented and released, but added: "My personal confidence level is low. As for the officers who
took the life of my friend and fellow first responder, I am sorry that he put himself in that position. I
am also sorry if the officers erred in firing the first shot, all the way to the 10th shot, and putting
themselves in that position. I have their names, but I am even more curious why they are

withholding their names."

Patterson told the NI he used a town vehicle to make the initial drive to Lake Havasu City, and
T own Manager David T eel confirmed he gave the marshal permission to use the vehicle, though
he said he wasn't sure if Patterson had been on the clock.

As for Patterson's comments to the News-Herald, T eel said, "I think he was speaking strictly on his
own behalf," adding: "Let's just say that's not the way that I would have approached the issue."

"I would personally hope they do a good and thorough job and (I) won't have any comments until
they're done," T eel said of KPD's investigation.

Patterson told the NI he wasn't acting in his role as marshal or being paid by the T own of
Patagonia during his time in Lake Havasu.

"I find it irritating that honestly you would even ask," he said, adding later that he was "highly
offended" by the question.

Patterson said he used non-town transportation to return to Lake Havasu, where he visited the
home and street where Bowdon was killed.

"While I am not 'investigating' or 'looking into' the incident, I am very curious about many aspects
of this officer-involved shooting," he said in the News-Herald story.

According to a news release issued July 26 by the KPD, officers from the Lake Havasu City Police
Department were dispatched to a home around 2:51 a.m. on July 25 in response to an open 911
call in which a man and woman could be heard screaming at each other.

T hree police officers made contact with Bowdon and "discharged their weapons," according to the
release. Bowdon was pronounced dead on the scene around 3:19 a.m. His wife, who was also at
the scene, was reportedly unharmed.

As of Monday afternoon, the KPD has yet to publish an update on the investigation to its website.

"It's an open, ongoing criminal investigation," Rusty Cooper, KPD spokesman, told the News-
Herald. "I can only imagine the emotional impact this has had on the people who knew (Bowdon).
People want answers, and we understand that, but there are protocols and procedures we have to
follow. We still have people to interview in this case, and we don't want to compromise those
interviews by releasing information prematurely."

Copyrig ht © 2018 Nog ales International. All rights reserved.

 

Authorities: Officer involved in fatal shooting in - Courier, The
(Russellville, AR) - January 4, 2018
January 4, 2018 | Courier, The (Russellville, AR) | Courier Staff Reports

OZARK -- A domestic disturbance call to a residence on West School Street in Ozark ended in an
officer involved shooting Tuesday night.

Ozark Police received a call for help at approximately 10:19 p.m. and dispatched an officer to the
residence.

Witnesses reported that Ronald Elliot
bedroom.

Ronald Elliot , 49, was armed with a gun and had locked himself inside his

Authorities say a woman entered the bedroom and tried to disarm Elliot before police arrived.
Witnesses say an officer then entered the bedroom and instructed Elliot to put down the gun
before a gunshot rang out.

Elliot was taken to an Ozark hospital where he died. His body has been transported to the Arkansas
State Crime Laboratory to collect forensic evidence and confirm the manner and cause of death.

Ozark Police Chief Devin Bramlett has asked special agents of the Arkansas State Police Criminal
Investigation Division to conduct an investigation of the shooting incident.

T he Ozark officer who responded to the incident is currently on paid administrative leave pending
the outcome of the Arkansas State Police investigation.

T he state police investigative file will be turned over to the Franklin County prosecuting attorney to
consider whether the use of deadly force by a law enforcement officer was consistent with
Arkansas laws.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Courier, All Rights Reserved.

 
Arkansas State Police investigates officer- - Associated Press State Wire:
Arkansas (AR) - January 3, 2018
January 3, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Arkansas (AR)

OZARK, Ark. (AP) — Arkansas State Police agents are investigating an officer-involved shooting
that led to the death of a 49-year-old man in Ozark.

Investigators say Ozark police were summoned to a residence where a domestic disturbance was
reported late T uesday. Witnesses say that Ronald Elliot
and was armed with a gun.

Ronald Elliot  had locked himself inside his bedroom

Authorities say a woman entered the bedroom and tried to disarm Elliot before police arrived.
Witnesses say an officer then entered the bedroom and instructed Elliot to put down the gun
before a gunshot rang out.

Elliot died at an Ozark hospital and his body has been transported to the Arkansas State Crime
Laboratory to determine the cause of death.

State Police did not release the name of the officer who was involved in the shooting.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
One dead in officer-involved shooting in Ozark - Booneville Democrat
(AR) - January 3, 2018
January 3, 2018 | Booneville Democrat (AR) | Times Record Staff

An Ozark man was killed in an officer-involved shooting Tuesday night.

T he man, Ronald Elliot
Ronald Elliot , 49, was killed after Ozark police responded to a call for help at 10:19 p.m.
T uesday at 1004 W. School St. in Ozark. Witnesses said they heard the responding officer tell Elliot
to put down a gun and then the sound of a gunshot, according to an Arkansas State Police news
release.

Ozark Police Chief Devin Bramlett has asked special agents of the Arkansas State Police Criminal
Investigation Division to investigate the incident. T he State Police investigative file will be turned
over to the Franklin County prosecuting attorney to consider whether the use of deadly force was
consistent with Arkansas laws, the release states.

Bramlett identified Ozark Police Officer Tyler Williams as the officer involved in the shooting. He
told the Times Record that Williams has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the State
Police investigation as of Wednesday.

Witnesses reported that Elliot was armed with a gun and had locked himself inside his bedroom. A
woman had entered the room to try to disarm Elliot prior to the shooting, the release states.

Elliot was taken to an Ozark hospital and died there. His body has been transported to the
Arkansas State Crime Laboratory to confirm the manner and cause of death and to collect
forensic evidence, the release states.

Bramlett asks that anyone with further questions about the incident contact State Police.

Copyrig ht 2018 Booneville Democrat, All Rights Reserved.

 
Ozark officer shoots, kills man - Times Record (Fort Smith, AR) - January
4, 2018 - page A1
January 4, 2018 | Times Record (Fort Smith, AR) | Times Record Staff | Article | Page A1

An Ozark man was killed in an officer-involved shooting Tuesday night.

T he man, Ronald Elliot
Ronald Elliot , 49, was killed after Ozark police responded to a call for help at 10:19 p.m.
T uesday at 1004 W. School St. in Ozark. Witnesses said they heard the responding officer tell Elliot
to put down a gun and then the sound of a gunshot, according to an Arkansas State Police news
release.

Ozark Police Chief Devin Bramlett has asked special agents of the Arkansas State Police Criminal
Investigation Division to investigate the incident. T he State Police investigative file will be turned
over to the Franklin County prosecuting attorney to consider whether the use of deadly force was
consistent with Arkansas laws, the release states.

Bramlett identified Ozark police officer Tyler Williams as the officer involved in the shooting. He
told the Times Record that Williams has been placed on paid administrative leave pending the State
Police investigation as of Wednesday.

Witnesses reported that Elliot was armed with a gun and had locked himself inside his bedroom. A
woman had entered the room to try to disarm Elliot prior to the shooting, the release states.

Elliot was taken to an Ozark hospital and died there. His body has been transported to the
Arkansas State Crime Laboratory to confirm the manner and cause of death and to collect
forensic evidence, the release states.

Bramlett asks that anyone with further questions about the incident contact State Police.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Times Record. All Rights Reserved.

 

He didn't respond to commands, so deputies fired, - Daily Herald, The
(Everett, WA) - May 13, 2019
May 13, 2019 | Daily Herald, The (Everett, WA)

LYNNWOOD — An Edmonds man wasn't responding to commands when he was shot and killed in
October by a Snohomish County sheriff's deputy, new documents say.

A girlfriend who witnessed the shooting, however, has claimed those orders were conflicting and
confusing.

Detectives with the Snohomish Multi Agency Response Team recently finished their investigation
into the confrontation with Nickolas Peters
digit speeds in south Snohomish County.

N ickolas Peters , 24, who led deputies on a pursuit that reached triple-

SMART  is a county-wide task force of detectives assigned to cases in which police have used
potentially fatal force. T he documents were obtained by T he Daily Herald through a public records
request.

T he findings have been forwarded to Snohomish County Prosecutor Adam Cornell, who will
determine whether the shooting was lawful and if any charges will be filed. He said Friday that the
case is under review.

On the night of Oct. 23, Peters and his girlfriend, Britt Jakobsen, were in a Ford F-150 with dark
tinted windows. Jakobsen told detectives they had visited friends in Mount Vernon and were headed
to her parents' home in Brier.

Sheriff's deputy Art Wallin attempted to pull over Peters around 10 p.m. on the way to a
disturbance call in the 19500 block of Sixth Drive SE east of Lynnwood. Peters sped off and led
deputies on a brief but frantic pursuit, going over 100 mph.

"He is all over the road," Wallin said over the radio, after trying to pin the truck. "T his guy is going
to kill someone."

Seconds later, Wallin said, "We have to take this guy out, he's going to kill someone."

A deputy performed a PIT  maneuver, striking a corner of the patrol car into a corner of the truck,
causing it to spin out off Damson Road. Another patrol car drove head-on into the truck, twice, to
pin it against some bushes and prevent Peters from escaping, documents say.

One deputy jumped on the hood of the truck and shined a flashlight through the windshield,
according to the report. Wallin positioned himself outside the passenger door.

Deputies shouted commands at Peters, telling him simultaneously to turn off the truck, open the

door and put his hands up, SMART  detectives wrote.

Witnesses in the neighborhood recorded the incident.

"T urn it off, turn it off," a deputy was heard saying in audio, according to the SMART  report.

At the same time, someone was shouting, "Hands up, hands up, hands up. Get your (expletive)
hands up."

T he commands conflicted, Jakobsen later said at a press conference.

In the police account of events, Peters did not appear to be complying with any order, and only his
left hand could be seen.

Wallin fired two shots. Both bullets went through Peters' right arm. One embedded in his ribs, while
the other pierced the right lung and landed in the spine.

Wallin declined to speak with SMART  detectives. His gun was reportedly missing two rounds.

Jakobsen had covered her eyes, the other deputy told SMART  detectives. Jakobsen later said that
wasn't true.

Deputies then ordered the couple to get out of the truck, documents say, and someone dragged
Jakobsen out by the hair.

Another grabbed Peters by the arm. When the deputy "felt resistance," he punched Peters in the
head at least twice, SMART  detectives wrote.

Peters went limp. He was bleeding from his shoulder. Deputies removed him from the truck and
gave him first aid.

He later died at Harborview Medical Center in Seattle. T he Snohomish County medical examiner
determined the cause of death was two gunshot wounds.

A toxicology report reportedly came back positive for fentanyl, amphetamine and
methamphetamine.

Deputies found 100 oxycodone pills in Peters' pockets. After obtaining a search warrant, SMART
detectives discovered a loaded .45-caliber semi-automatic pistol in a green zippered case
underneath the center console of the truck, as well as boxes of ammunition, drugs and drug
paraphernalia.

At the press conference in November, Jakobsen disputed key details. She and Peters both raised
their hands in response to law enforcement's orders, she said.

She also said that they had been confused by the flurry of orders.

Lawyers with Seattle-based firm Campiche Arnold have been considering a civil rights lawsuit. T hey
had not filed a complaint as of Friday.

Zachariah Bryan: 425-339-3431; zbryan@heraldnet.com. T witter: @zachariahtb.

Copyrig ht, 2019, The Daily Herald, Everett, WA. All Rights Reserved.

 
Family sues over son fatally shot by deputy in - Associated Press State
Wire: Washington (WA) - June 7, 2019
June 7, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Washington (WA)

BOT HELL, Wash. (AP) — A Snohomish family whose son was fatally shot by police after a police
chase has filed a civil claim against the Snohomish County Sheriff's Office.

KOMO-T V reports Jayni and Mike Peters are seeking damages in excess of $5 million for their
son's death in the Bothell area Oct. 23.

T he family announced the filing during a news conference in their attorney Jeffrey Campiche's
office T hursday.

Campiche says Nickolas Peters
shot, and that officers were shouting conflicting commands at him before the shooting.

N ickolas Peters  should have been arrested for speeding away from deputies, not

T he Peters family is also suing the State of Washington, deputy Arthur Wallin and unnamed
deputies. T he sheriff's office says Wallin remains on paid administrative leave.

T he Snohomish County Prosecutor's Office says findings from the investigation are still under
review.

___

Information from: KOMO-T V, http://www.komotv.com/

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
Witness says boyfriend followed orders before - Daily Herald, The
(Everett, WA) - November 21, 2018
November 21, 2018 | Daily Herald, The (Everett, WA)

SEAT T LE — A witness is disputing key details in the fatal shooting of an Edmonds man in October.

Britt Jakobsen, 22, was in the front passenger seat when a Snohomish County sheriff's deputy shot
N ickolas Peters  on Oct. 23. She and Peters had been dating for about five years, were engaged
N ickolas Peters
and were on their way home from a friend's house.

She spoke publicly Wednesday at a law firm in downtown Seattle. Lawyers are working with her in
considering whether the deputy's use of deadly force warrants a civil rights lawsuit.

T he case remains under investigation by the Snohomish County Multiple Agency Response T eam,
which includes detectives from several local departments.

Aaron Snell, an Everett police officer and SMART  spokesman, said there was little he could say at
this point.

"As the investigation is ongoing, we will let the search warrants stand as released," he said in an
email late Wednesday afternoon. "If there is additional information about the incident, or
clarification needed, we encourage the female passenger to talk with detectives."

Deputy Art Wallin had attempted to pull over Peters, 24, on the way to a disturbance call in the
19500 block of Sixth Drive SE in the Lynnwood area. Peters sped off and led deputies on a brief but
frantic pursuit, going over 100 mph and weaving all over the street.

Jakobsen said she breathed a sigh of relief when deputies pinned in the vehicle.

"When the vehicle finally stopped, I thought it was over," she said. "We're safe."

"I couldn't imagine Nick was going to die that night."

One deputy jumped on the hood and shined a flashlight through the windshield, according to
search warrants filed in court, while Wallin positioned himself outside the passenger door.

N ickolas Peters  (top) and Britt Jakobsen. (Courtesy of Britt Jakobsen)
N ickolas Peters

Contrary to what was initially reported by police, Jakobsen said, she and her boyfriend complied with
deputies' commands that night. When they told him to turn off the truck, he turned it off, she said.
When they told them to raise their hands, they obeyed, she said.

Wallin said he couldn't see Peters' right hand, court papers said. T he deputies ordered the man

again to raise his hand.

Jakobsen said the deputy should have had a clear view of them.

"T hey could see perfectly through the windshield," she said.

She said there was a moment of confusion when one of the deputies told them to get out of the
vehicle. She and Peters locked eyes, realizing they couldn't comply with both commands, to lift
their hands and leave the vehicle, at the same time. So they stayed still.

T he deputies said they saw Jakobsen balled up in the passenger seat with her hands over her face,
records show. She disputes that description.

Jeff Campiche, a lawyer with Campiche Arnold, said law enforcement was trying to discount her as
a witness by saying she had her face covered.

"But she's a witness," he said. "She saw what she saw."

Jakobsen said the deputies didn't give enough time after their initial commands. Wallin fired two
shots and Peters suffered two wounds to his right side.

Right after, Jakobsen said the two deputies dragged her out of the truck by her hair. T he warrant
papers only mentioned that she was "removed from the vehicle."

Campiche said the deputies were right to stop Peters for eluding police, but there was no
confrontation that would have prompted the use of deadly force.

Law enforcement eventually found a loaded .45-caliber Kimber Custom II pistol in a green zippered
case underneath the center console, according to public records. Police say they also recovered
100 oxycodone pills at the scene.

But, Campiche said, the deputies were unaware of the gun when they stopped Peters, and it was
out of reach.

"T he police are not entitled to execute somebody who has committed a crime," he said. "T heir
responsibility is to arrest them."

Moreover, he said, a deputy should not have jumped onto the hood of the truck. He questioned
whether that was in line with standard training to de-escalate volatile incidents.

"Is it the policy of that department to shoot and kill before they have identified a deadly threat, only
because a person's hands are not completely revealed to the policeman?" he said.

When it is completed, the SMART  investigation will be forwarded to prosecutors to review.

Zachariah Bryan: 425-339-3431; zbryan@heraldnet.com. T witter: zachariahtb.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Daily Herald, Everett, WA. All Rights Reserved.

 
Family of Edmonds man shot by deputy sues sheriff' - Daily Herald, The
(Everett, WA) - June 7, 2019
June 7, 2019 | Daily Herald, The (Everett, WA)

SEAT T LE — T he family of an Edmonds man who was shot and killed last year by a Snohomish
County sheriff's deputy filed a civil lawsuit Thursday in U.S. District Court in Seattle.

T he lawsuit names Snohomish County, Sheriff T y T renary and the sheriff's office. It also
specifically names Deputy Art Wallin, who fired the bullets that killed 24-year-old Nickolas Peters
N ickolas Peters
during their October encounter east of Lynnwood. T he complaint argues that Wallin's use of
excessive force was a violation of rights laid out in the U.S. Constitution.

T he plaintiffs are seeking a jury trial and are asking for more than $5 million in damages for Peters'
death. They're being represented by Seattle-based law firm Campiche Arnold.

"It's our belief that Nick should have been arrested, not shot," attorney Jeff Campiche said at a
press briefing Thursday morning.

Mike Peters, the father of Nickolas Peters
uses deadly force.

N ickolas Peters , said he wants to see law enforcement change how it

"We can't have this happening to other people," he said. "It's ridiculous."

T he complaint raises several questions about the encounter, including whether Nickolas Peters
N ickolas Peters
was or wasn't following orders, and whether he represented any kind of threat to law
enforcement. Campiche said that deputies should have clearly seen that Peters was unarmed and
that he was not making any move to harm them.

T he shooting was investigated by the Snohomish Multi-Agency Response T eam, a task force of
detectives assigned to cases in which police have used potentially fatal force. A copy of their report
was obtained by T he Daily Herald through a public records request.

Snohomish County Prosecutor Adam Cornell, who will decide whether to bring criminal charges
against any involved deputies, said on Thursday that his office is still reviewing the SMART
investigation's results.

"T he case will be reviewed and decided like all of our cases — carefully, thoroughly, and ethically,"
Cornell wrote in an email.

Jayni Peters, shown here with her 16-year-old son, Jack Peters, on Thursday at the Campiche Arnold
law firm in Seattle, says her son, Nickolas Peters
T he Herald)

N ickolas Peters , didn't deserve to be killed. ( Zachariah Bryan /

On Oct. 23, Peters was driving a Ford F-150 with dark tinted windows with his girlfriend, Britt
Jakobsen, headed to her parents' home in Brier. When Deputy Wallin attempted to pull him over
east of Lynnwood, Peters led law enforcement on a triple-digit pursuit, according to the
investigation's documents.

Eventually, a patrol car knocked the truck off the street on Damson Road, documents say. A
deputy then rammed his car head-on into the truck, twice, to pin it against some bushes, according
to the SMART  report.

T wo deputies approached the vehicle. Wallin positioned himself at the passenger side door, while
another deputy stood on top of the truck's hood, shining a flashlight through the windshield.

Campiche said there should have been more than enough light to illuminate the inside of the truck
and give a clear view of what Peters and Jakobsen were doing.

On audio recorded by nearby witnesses, the two deputies could be heard shouting conflicting
commands, SMART  detectives wrote in their report:

"T urn it off, turn it off."

"Open the door."

"Hands up, hands up, hands up. Get your (expletive) hands up."

T he deputy on the hood told SMART  detectives he couldn't see Peters' right hand, only that the
arm was down by his waist and seat. T he deputy said that Peters did not appear to be complying
whatsoever, according to the SMART  report.

T he lawsuit contends otherwise, saying that Peters was trying to follow orders.

Sheriff's Deputy Art Wallin shot Peters twice, but only a single bullet hole can be seen in a picture of
the scene. Attorney Jeff Campiche argues that Wallin fired the fatal shot after the passenger door
was open. (Campiche Arnold)

At a press conference held by Campiche Arnold in November, Jakobsen said that she and Peters
had looked at each other and realized they couldn't follow all of the commands at once. She also
said that Peters had raised both of his hands.

Even if Peters wasn't doing exactly what the deputies said, there wasn't justification to shoot him,
Campiche said.

"In our country, you don't execute someone simply because they don't follow the officer's
commands," he said.

T he deputy on the hood said he was looking down, not at Peters, the moment that Wallin opened
fire, SMART  detectives wrote.

Wallin fired two shots. Both bullets went through Peters' right arm, according to a report by the
Snohomish County Medical Examiner. One embedded in his ribs, while the other pierced the right
lung and landed in the spine.

Campiche believes there was a space in time between the two shots.

A photo from the medical examiner, provided by the law firm, shows a single bullet hole through
the passenger side of the windshield.

Likely, Campiche said, Wallin fired the second bullet after the passenger side door was open —
unless it somehow went through the same hole.

T he picture does not provide a full view of the passenger door and whether there might be any
bullet holes in it.

T he SMART  report indicates that the passenger door wasn't opened until after the shots were
fired, and after backup units arrived.

If the door was open, Campiche surmised, Wallin should have seen that Peters was not making any
threatening moves.

A loaded .45-caliber semi-automatic pistol in a green zippered case was later found underneath the
center console, but it was likely not within Peters' reach, Campiche said.

A toxicology report reportedly came back positive for fentanyl, amphetamine and
methamphetamine, but that didn't mean Peters was dangerous, Campiche said.

T he only threat that was present was the truck itself, Campiche said, but that had been rendered
immobile.

N ickolas
"It was not necessary for Snohomish County Deputy Sheriff Wallin to shoot to kill N ickolas
Peters  to protect against imminent risk or serious physical injury," the complaint states.
Peters

In the complaint, the plaintiffs argue that the sheriff's office failed to adequately train its deputies
to avoid deadly force when it's unnecessary — despite calls from the public for police to use less
lethal alternatives.

As a result, they allege, Peters was killed.

Wallin declined to speak to SMART  detectives. He remains on paid administrative leave, sheriff's
office spokeswoman Shari Ireton said T hursday.

Speaking at the Campiche Arnold law firm, family said Peters was one to let his hugs linger.
Whenever he talked to family on the phone, he would say "I love you" before hanging up. And he
was always active, having played hockey and lacrosse all through school.

Since his death, life hasn't been the same, family said.

"Life is just harder now," his sister, Lyndsay Peters, said. "I have anxiety I never had before. I don't
enjoy things anymore that I used to …"

"T here were supposed to be so many more years to make more memories for us," she said.

Zachariah Bryan: 425-339-3431; zbryan@heraldnet.com. T witter: @zachariahtb.

Copyrig ht, 2019, The Daily Herald, Everett, WA. All Rights Reserved.

 
Edmonds man shot by deputy had gun in truck, but - Daily Herald, The
(Everett, WA) - November 12, 2018
November 12, 2018 | Daily Herald, The (Everett, WA)

LYNNWOOD — An Edmonds man would not show a Snohomish County sheriff's deputy his right
hand, when he was shot to death at the end of a pursuit north of Bothell, according to search
warrants filed in court.

N ickolas Michael Peters
N ickolas Michael Peters , 24, was not holding a weapon. A loaded .45-caliber Kimber Custom II
pistol was found, however, in a green zippered case underneath the center console of the Ford F-
150 he was driving, records show.

Peters led two deputies on a brief, wild pursuit around 10 p.m. Oct. 23, before the shooting at
Filbert and Damson roads.

Detectives on the Snohomish County Multiple Agency Response Team continue to investigate, and
the deputy who opened fire is still on paid leave, said Everett police officer Aaron Snell, a
spokesman for SMART .

Deputy Art Wallin had been called to the 19500 block of Sixth Drive SE, for a report of a
disturbance. On his way to the home, he tried to pull over a Ford F-150 that was leaving the
neighborhood at Nellis Road.

T he driver, Peters, refused to show his hands, according to the warrants.

Deputy Wallin had him pinned in, but Peters backed into a retaining wall and sped off. T he truck
swerved all over the street at 100-plus mph west on Filbert, a road that's also called Highway 524.
T he truck slowed to 20 mph and ran a red light, as another deputy tried to catch up.

Wallin stopped the truck with a PIT  maneuver, striking a corner of the patrol car into a back corner
of the truck, to make it spin out. But the driver regained control and kept going.

"He's taking off again," Wallin said on the radio. "He is all over the road. T his guy is going to kill
someone."

Another driver reported the oncoming truck drifted into her lane, and she had to swerve to avoid a
crash. Deputies tried another PIT  manuever at Damson and Filbert. On the third try, a deputy
blocked the pickup between his vehicle and the woods. He stood on the hood, while Wallin rushed
to the passenger side. He could see a woman in the passenger seat, balled up with her hands over
her face. Deputies ordered the driver to show his hands. Wallin could see Peters' left hand.

"Deputies continued to give verbal commands to the occupants to show their hands, but Peters
kept his right hand at his side," says one of the search warrants written by Lynnwood detective

Jacqueline Arnett.

Wallin fired two shots. Peters suffered two wounds to his right side. He was pronounced dead at
Harborview Medical Center in Seattle.

In Peters' clothes, police found 100 oxycodone pills, according to the warrants. Later, more
evidence of drugs was documented in the truck: a bottle of oxycodone; 23 pills of naloxone, the
antidote for opioid overdoses; six pills of the sedative Librium; a white powder; a rolled up $5 bill; a
case of burnt black tar; a box holding a scale, knife and lighter; a ledger; and two glass pipes with
residue.

T he pistol had five rounds in the clip, with no rounds chambered. Boxes of .45-caliber ammo were
recovered.

Peters had warrants for unlawful possession of a firearm and driving with a suspended license.

In February, he'd been pulled over for driving with a revoked license on 208th Street SW. He got
out with his hands up. T he officer asked if he had any weapons. He paused, then said he had a
.380-caliber pistol in his pocket, charging papers say. T hat gun was loaded with six rounds.

"I know I'm not supposed to have the gun," he told Lynnwood police, according to the charges. He
told officers he was a felon, for attempting to elude police in 2014 in Mason County.

Wallin has confronted armed gunmen before. He shot a drunk, despondent man at a Stanwood
home in 2013. In that case, two deputies shouted conflicting commands to a man with a rifle in his
home, to both raise his arms and drop his weapon. Gene Fagerlie raised the gun, and Wallin opened
fire. One bullet hit Fagerlie's hand. Another bullet grazed his head.

T hat shooting was ruled justified by Snohomish County Prosecutor Mark Roe.

October's fatal gunfire will be reviewed by the same office.

On the night Peters was shot, his license was still suspended. Urine tests reportedly came up
positive for methamphetamine, amphetamine, cocaine, fentanyl and morphine. In the body,
opiates metabolize as morphine. From the paperwork, it's unclear if the drugs were at levels that
would cause impairment, or if they were lingering in his system.

Detectives impounded the Ford. Three days later, they searched it.

On the front passenger seat was a black iPhone, still connected to a charging cord. T he screen
was lit up with missed calls and social media alerts. Nine calls came from the owner of the pickup
on Oct. 24, the same day he reported the truck had been stolen by Peters.

Caleb Hutton: 425-339-3454; chutton@heraldnet.com. T witter: @snocaleb.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Daily Herald, Everett, WA. All Rights Reserved.

 

Prosecutors: Pueblo officers justified in fatal - Associated Press State
Wire: Colorado (CO) - May 22, 2019
May 22, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Colorado (CO)

PUEBLO, Colo. (AP) — Prosecutors say two Pueblo police officers were justified when they shot
and killed a man who pointed a BB gun at them during a confrontation last year.

T he Pueblo Chieftain reports 55-year-old Steven Peters
the black gun at the officers, who were trying to talk to him about a reported domestic
disturbance. Peters was shot seven times and died at the scene.

Steven Peters  Sr. was killed March 6, 2018, after aiming

Pueblo County District Attorney Jeff Chostner released a letter Wednesday saying the officers "had
reasonable ground to believe, and did believe, that they were in imminent danger of being killed."

Investigators say Peters did not follow commands and raised the gun at one of the officers.

___

Information from: T he Pueblo Chieftain, http://www.chieftain.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
District Attorney: Officers justified in 2018 - Pueblo Chieftain, The (CO) -
May 23, 2019 - page A5
May 23, 2019 | Pueblo Chieftain, The (CO) | Zach Hillstrom The Pueblo Chieftain | Article | Page A5

T wo Pueblo police officers who fatally shot a man who pointed a BB gun at them in early 2018
were cleared for their use of deadly force by the 10th Judicial District Critical Incident T eam.

Steven
Officers Thomas DeCesaro and Adam Quintana were justified in shooting 55-year-old Steven
Peters
Peters  Sr. on March 6, 2018, after Peters reportedly aimed a black airsoft gun at them as they
attempted to contact him regarding a domestic disturbance, according to the CIT  decision letter
authored by DA Jeff Chostner and released Wednesday,

Police had been called to the area on a report of a restraining order violation in which a woman told
police that Peters – whom she had an active protection order against – had come to her home in
the 900 block of East Ninth Street, entered her residence without invitation, and then refused to
leave.

Once the woman informed Peters she was calling police, she said he left the home, traveling on a
green mountain bike.

Responding officers found Peters a short time later near the intersection of East Ninth Street and
North Iola Avenue and, according to the CIT  decision letter, saw him reaching into his jacket
pockets and gave him loud verbal commands to show officers his hands.

Another officer who did not discharge his weapon during the shooting reportedly fired a stun gun
at Peters, who was wearing a thick jacket and was unfazed by the weapon.

During the interaction, Peters reportedly produced what appeared to be a black handgun, which
was later found to be an airsoft gun, and body camera footage indicated both officers told him
multiple times to drop the gun and show his hands.

According to the CIT  letter – which took into account officer and witness testimony as well as
body-worn camera footage from all involved officers – Peters failed to comply with officers’
commands and then “made a movement toward DeCesaro, causing him to fire several shots at
Peters. Peters then raised his weapon toward Quintana, which resulted in both DeCesaro and
Quintana firing” at him.

Peters died at the scene. An autopsy performed the following day showed he had sustained seven
gunshot wounds.

In investigating the case, investigators spoke with woman who originally called police on Peters to
report the restraining order violation, who told them Peters had previously stated that “he wasn’t
going back to jail again and police would have to kill him.”

Peters’ refusal to drop his gun reportedly could be heard on the body camera footage of the
incident, and Peters can be heard telling DeCesaro “just kill me.”

After weighing the evidence and information surrounding the case, Chostner stated no evidence
collected during the investigation supported any claim of criminal wrongdoing by the two officers.

“T hey had reasonable grounds to believe, and did believe, that they were in imminent danger of
being killed or receiving great bodily injury,” Chostner wrote. “T he actions of DeCesaro and
Quintana were based on their own observations and perceptions, and their actions were
reasonable.”

zhillstrom@chieftain.com

T witter: @ZachHillstrom

Copyrig ht, 2019, Pueblo Chieftain, The, All Rights Reserved.

 
2 Pueblo police officers involved in March 6 - Pueblo Chieftain, The (CO)
- March 16, 2018
March 16, 2018 | Pueblo Chieftain, The (CO) | Zachary Hillstrom

T he Pueblo Police Department released the names of the two officers involved in the March 6
officer-involved shooting of 55-year-old Steven Peters
DeCesaro and Adam Quintana.

Steven Peters  on Friday, identifying them as T homas

T he officers have returned to full duty following the shooting investigation in which Peters
reportedly led them on a brief chase that ended with him producing a handgun and being shot and
killed by DeCesaro and Quintana.

T hey had been called to the 900 block of East Ninth Street to investigate a report of a restraining
order violation when a female caller reported that Peters was refusing to leave her home and was
carrying a handgun.

Peters reportedly left the woman's residence on a bicycle and when officers approached him at a
nearby intersection, refused to comply with their commands and reportedly reached for his
waistband.

Police say the officers deployed a stun gun on Peters but were unable to subdue him, at which
point he began running.

After a short foot chase through the yards of neighboring homes, the officers found him in the
backyard of a home on the 900 block of East Eighth Street.

It was at this point Peters allegedly produced a handgun, prompting the two officers to fire their
weapons. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

T he event marked the second officer-involved shooting in Pueblo of 2018, which has since
increased to three.

Another officer-involved shooting took place earlier this week, as 35-year-old Matthew Gregg was
shot after firing multiple rounds at police from a handgun.

Gregg was listed in critical condition as of Tuesday but police were unable to provide an update on
his condition Friday.

zhillstrom@chieftain.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, Pueblo Chieftain, The, All Rights Reserved.

 
Pueblo police identify officers in fatal shooting - Pueblo Chieftain, The
(CO) - March 16, 2018
March 16, 2018 | Pueblo Chieftain, The (CO) | Staff Writer

Pueblo Police Officers Thomas DeCesaro and Adam Quintana were involved in a fatal shooting.

T he Pueblo Police Department released the names of the officers Friday. Both DeCesaro and
Quintana have returned to full duty.

Police were called to reports of a restraining order violation on March 6 on East Eighth Street.

Steven Peters , 55, from Pueblo left the scene on a bike. Police began searching the area

Suspect Steven Peters
for the suspect and found him near the corner of Ninth Street and Lola Avenue.

Police said Peters reached for his waist. Officers tried to use a stun gun, but it failed, so they ran
after him.

"T hey were yelling: gun, gun, gun, firearm, giving loud verbal commands for him to drop the
weapon, but he just didn't do it," said Cpt. Kenny Rider, with the Pueblo Police Department.

Shortly after Peters refused to put the handgun down officers opened fire, killing him.

No officers were hurt in the shooting.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Pueblo Chieftain, The, All Rights Reserved.

 
Pueblo police shoot suspect who brandished gun; - Pueblo Chieftain,
The (CO) - March 7, 2018
March 7, 2018 | Pueblo Chieftain, The (CO) | Zachary Hillstrom

T wo Pueblo Police officers are on paid administrative leave after shooting and killing a man who
allegedly produced a handgun during a brief chase Tuesday evening.

Police came in contact with the suspect, who was later identified by Pueblo County Coroner Brian
Cotter as 55-year-old Steven Peters
on the 900 block of East Ninth Street.

Steven Peters , while responding to a report of a restraining violation order

A female caller had told police that Peters was refusing to leave her home and was in possession
of a firearm.

Peters reportedly left the woman's residence traveling on a bicycle and when officers approached
him at the nearby intersection of East Ninth Street and North Iola Avenue, refused to comply with
their commands and reportedly reached for his waistband.

Police say the officers deployed a stun gun on Peters but were unable to subdue him, due to the
fact he was wearing a thick jacket that the instrument's barbs were unable to penetrate.

Peters resisted the stun gun and began running. After a short foot chase through the yards of
neighboring homes, the officers found him in the backyard of a home on the 900 block of East
Eighth Street.

It was at this point Peters allegedly produced a handgun, prompting the two officers to fire their
service weapons.

Peters was pronounced dead at the scene and no officers or citizens were reported injured during
the incident.

According to Pueblo Police Department spokesman Kenny Rider, the body cameras of both
officers were recording at the time of the incident and an initial viewing of the footage collected
showed the officers repeatedly commanding Peters to drop the gun before they eventually fired.

T he names of the officers involved will be released at a later time.

T he 10th Judicial District Critical Incident Team has begun its investigation into the shooting, which
is standard protocol when a law enforcement official engages a criminal suspect with deadly force.

zhillstrom@ chieftain.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, Pueblo Chieftain, The, All Rights Reserved.

 


 
MANTOLOKING –Edward M. Walsh, who met a violent end Monday, was facing new allegations of violent crime

after serving probation for another one. 

The 39-year-old Stafford man died after an armed confrontation with police in a home here, according to the Ocean

County Prosecutor's Office. Before dying, police say he stabbed a police dog, which was released from an animal

hospital Wednesday. 

Walsh's court history dates back to 1998, but the most serious allegations are more recent. 

On April 22, 2017, Stafford police charged Walsh with aggravated assault on a domestic violence victim, criminal

mischief and making terroristic threats, court records show. 

Walsh pleaded guilty to simple assault in July of that year, served a year of probation and paid a $100 penalty,

according to court records. 

Most of the charges Walsh faced over his lifetime were traffic-related, including driving after losing his license,

according to court records. He was busted in 1998 for possession of a small amount of marijuana but that charge

was conditionally dismissed in 2000 after he paid $780 in various fees and fines. 

Most recently, though, police in Sayreville charged Walsh with kidnapping, two counts of aggravated assault

including strangling a domestic violence victim, unlawful possession of weapon, possession of a weapon for an

unlawful purpose, making terroristic threats and theft, court records show. 

In a prepared statement, Ocean County Prosecutor Bradley Billhimer said Walsh had attempted to strangle his

girlfriend and stolen her car on Sunday. 

he died, according to the prosecutor's office. 

Police from several towns and sheriff's officers were trying to arrest Walsh on those charges in Mantoloking when

Walsh, holed up in a home and holding a knife, stabbed a sheriff's police dog the officers sent after him, according

to the prosecutor's statement. The officers shot when Walsh attacked. 

A medical examiner pronounced Walsh dead at the scene, but it is still unclear whether the gunfire, a self-inflicted

knife wound on Walsh's neck or something else was the cause of death. 

Police believe Walsh may have gone to the Mantoloking home "because he was previously married to a family

member of the prior owner," according to the prosecutor's statement. 

The dog, Kane, was treated at the Red Bank Veterinary Hospital in Tinton Falls and released Wednesday. A police

officer was treated at a hospital and released. Authorities have not identified the officers involved. 

The shooting is under review per guidelines from the Office of the Attorney General, according to the prosecutor's

Alex N. Gecan: @GeeksterTweets; 732-643-4043; agecan@gannettnj.com 

office. 

CREDIT: Alex N. Gecan 
 
 


Prosecutor: Suspect shot, killed after stabbing - Associated Press State
Wire: New Jersey (NJ) - November 13, 2018
November 13, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New Jersey (NJ)

MANT OLOKING, N.J. (AP) — Authorities say a knife-wielding man was shot and killed after stabbing
a police dog during a confrontation in southern New Jersey.

Ocean County prosecutors say Mantoloking police went Monday to a home looking for 39-year-
old Edward Walsh
charges in connection with an incident Sunday involving his girlfriend.

Edward Walsh of Manahawkin, who was wanted on kidnapping, aggravated assault and theft

Prosecutors said officers entered and found Walsh armed with a knife, which he refused to drop. A
K-9 officer was released and Walsh stabbed the animal, and officers then opened fire. Officials said
Walsh, who also had a self-inflicted knife wound across his neck, was pronounced dead at the
scene.

T he police dog is expected to be released Wednesday from a veterinary hospital. T he attorney
general's office is to review the shooting.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Man accused of assault dies after he’s shot by - Star-Ledger, The
(Newark, NJ) - November 14, 2018 - page 003
November 14, 2018 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ) | Alex Napoliello For The Star-Ledger | Page 003

A 39-year-old Manahawkin man was shot by police in a million-dollar Mantoloking home Monday
after authorities tried to arrest him for assaulting a woman, officials announced T uesday.

Edward M . Walsh was pronounced dead at the scene, according to a statement released by
Edward M . Walsh
Ocean County Prosecutor Bradley D. Billhimer.

However, the statement said Walsh, who was armed with a knife, had also slashed his own throat,
and that an autopsy was pending. Officers opened fire on Walsh after Walsh stabbed a K-9, the
prosecutor said.

Walsh was wanted by authorities on charges of kidnapping, aggravated assault, theft and weapons
offenses for an incident in Sayreville on Sunday involving a woman he knew. NJ Advance Media is
withholding Walsh’s relationship to the woman because she is a victim of a crime and could be
identified.

After the incident, the prosecutor said, Walsh stole the woman’s car and drove it to Lacey, about
50 miles south of Sayreville. Lacey police contacted the Mantoloking Police Department shortly
before noon and informed them that they received “reliable information” that Walsh was at a
house on Barnegat Lane in the borough, the statement said.

Billhimer said Walsh knew of that home because he was previously married to a family member of
the prior owner. According to property records, the home sold for $1.55 million in February 2017.

T he current owner told NJ Advance Media in a phone interview Tuesday morning that she had no
involvement in what happened on Monday.

“It was completely random,” the owner said, noting that she doesn’t occupy the home full-time.

According to police, the current owner gave a group of Mantoloking police officers, an Ocean
County sheriff’s officer with a K-9 and one Bay Head police officer permission to enter the home.

Inside, the authorities encountered Walsh and yelled at him to drop a knife he was holding, the
statement said. When Walsh did not release the knife, prosecutors said, K-9 Kane was released.

Walsh, who was approximately 20 feet from the officers, stabbed the K-9 with the knife and that’s
when officers fired at him, according to the statement.

Officers discovered that Walsh also had a knife wound across his neck, but it’s unclear when it was
made, officials said.

T he K-9 was taken to the Red Bank Veterinary Hospital in T inton Falls and is expected to recover,
the statement said.

Because the shooting involved a sheriff’s officer, the prosecutor said, the New Jersey State Police
were brought in to assist with the investigation.

T he investigation is being handled by the Ocean County Prosecutor’s Office, according to a
spokesman with the Attorney General’s Office.

Authorities urged anyone with information to call detectives Brant Uricks or Lindsay Woodfield of
the Ocean County Prosecutor’s Office’s Major Crimes Unit at 732-929-2027.

Mantoloking is a tiny barrier island borough with approximately 300 full-time residents. It swells in
size with thousands of vacationers during the summer.

On T uesday, the few full-time residents in the area said they were shocked when confronted with
such a large police presence, an unusual sight for a sliver of a town lined with multimillion-dollar
homes.

It’s unclear how Walsh gained entry into the house on Barnegat Lane. Yellow crime-scene tape
remained up on Tuesday morning.

NJ Advance Media research editor Vinessa Erminio contributed to this report.

Copyrig ht 2018 The Star-Ledg er. All Rights Reserved.

 

 
MANTOLOKING - A 39-year-old Stafford man hiding out in a borough home was killed following a standoff with

police that ended when he slit his neck and officers opened fire after he stabbed a police dog, authorities said 

Edward Walsh had fled to Mantoloking after he allegedly kidnapped and assaulted his girlfriend in Middlesex

County on Sunday, authorities said. After a 45-minute standoff with police, Walsh was killed after he allegedly

stabbed a police K-9 with a knife, prompting police to fire their service weapons, Ocean County Prosecutor Bradley

Billhimer said in a statement. Walsh also had a self-inflicted knife wound across his neck, Billhimer said. 

His cause of death has not yet been determined and it's unclear whether officers' bullets or the self-inflicted wound

killed him. An autopsy is pending to determine the cause of death. 

The chain of events that led to Walsh's death began in Sayreville Sunday when Walsh kidnapped and assaulted his

girlfriend, according to the statement. Walsh then stole his girlfriend's car and fled to Lacey, Billhimer said. 

He was wanted on charges of first-degree kidnapping, second- and third-degree aggravated assault, unlawful

possession of a weapon, possession of a weapon for an unlawful purpose and vehicle theft, authorities said. 

Lacey police then received "reliable information" that Walsh was hiding out at a home on Barnegat Lane in

Mantoloking. Detectives surmised that Walsh had sought refuge there because he used to be married to a family

member of the prior owner. 

house on Barnegat Lane. 

The two-story home was sold in February 2017 for $1,550,000, according to public records. 

Shortly before noon Monday, Lacey police alerted their counterparts in Mantoloking that Walsh was likely at the

Three Mantoloking police officers, one Ocean County Sheriff's officer with a K-9 officer named Kane and one Bay

Head police officer arrived at the home, where Walsh was hiding out armed with a knife, to serve an arrest warrant. 

After about 45 minutes and with permission from the current homeowner, police burst into the home and ordered

Walsh to drop the knife, Billhimer said. 

When Walsh refused, the K-9 was released to help subdue him, he said. 

"Walsh, who was within approximately 20 feet of the officers, stabbed K-9 Officer Kane with a knife and then the

officers fired," according to the statement. 

Billhimer did not say to which department the officers who opened fire belonged. 

The Ocean County Medical Examiner pronounced Walsh dead at the scene. 

K-9 Officer Kane was taken to Red Bank Veterinary Hospital in Tinton Falls. He is expected to make a full recovery

and will be released from the hospital tomorrow, Billhimer said. 

The Ocean County Prosecutor's Office contacted the State Police to process the scene because Walsh's death

occurred while police were using force. The state Attorney General's Office reviews —and sometimes take charge

of —investigations in which police deadly force is deployed. 

State Police investigators were on scene during the investigation Monday afternoon. 

Anyone with information relevant to the investigation is asked to contact Detective Brant Uricks or Detective

Lindsay Woodfield of the Ocean County Prosecutor's Office at 732-929-2027. 

The shooting stunned the normally quiet beachfront community of Mantoloking. Detectives from the prosecutor's

office, State Police and Ocean County Sheriff's Department gathered in front of the home, which was roped off with

crime scene tape following the shooting. 

The home is located in an upscale area with many seasonal homes. The borough was severely damaged when

superstorm Sandy struck the Jersey Shore in October 2012, damaging 90 percent of Mantoloking's 528 properties. 

Andrew Goudsward: @AGoudsward; 732-897-4555; agoudsward@gannettnj.com 

More online 

Search "Mantoloking" at APP.com to see more video and photos from the scene. 

CREDIT: Andrew J. Goudsward; Kathleen Hopkins; Alex N. Gecan; Jean Mikle 
 
 

Police dog stabbed by suspect released from animal - Associated Press
State Wire: New Jersey (NJ) - November 14, 2018
November 14, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New Jersey (NJ)

MANT OLOKING, N.J. (AP) — A police dog stabbed as he tried to subdue a knife-wielding man has
been released from a veterinary hospital.

Several officers were on hand as Kane left the hospital in Red Bank around 9:30 a.m. Wednesday.

Ocean County prosecutors say Kane and his handler, a county sheriff's officer, were among a
group of law enforcement officers who went to a Mantoloking home Monday looking for 39-year-
old Edward Walsh
Edward Walsh. T he Manahawkin man was wanted on kidnapping, aggravated assault and
theft charges in connection with an incident Sunday involving his girlfriend.

Prosecutors say officers entered and found Walsh armed with a knife, which he refused to drop.
Kane was released and Walsh stabbed the animal, and officers then opened fire.

Walsh, who also had a self-inflicted knife wound across his neck, was pronounced dead at the
scene.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

3 cops hurt, suspect killed after South Elgin - Daily Herald (Arlington
Heights, IL) - July 5, 2018
July 5, 2018 | Daily Herald (Arlington Heights, IL) | Susan Sarkauskas and Eric Peterson
ssarkauskas@dailyherald.com epeterson@dailyherald.com

3 cops hurt, suspect killed after South Elgin standoff

A 52-year-old man was killed and three police officers were wounded early Wednesday morning
during a shootout that followed a four-hour standoff on the 300 block of Woodridge Circle in
South Elgin, police said.

T he dead man was identified as Frank Dripps
he left his condominium after a lengthy standoff that began around 11 p.m. Tuesday and ended
around 2:30 a.m.

Frank Dripps , 52, who authorities said opened fire on officers as

None of the officers’ injuries were considered life-threatening and all were treated and released
Wednesday, according to their respective departments.

South Elgin police had not had previous contact with Dripps, Sgt. Michael Doty said. He said police
do not yet have a motive for Dripps’ actions and he did not know the full content of the
negotiations the Kane County SWAT  team conducted.

Dripps lived in the condominium, Doty said, and no one else was inside at the time.

T wenty people were displaced during the standoff, and a total of 11 police agencies responded,
Doty said.

Doty said Dripps fired twice at South Elgin officers as they got out of their vehicles around 10:50
p.m. Tuesday and then later fired at least once at members of the Kane County SWAT  team.

T he initial call was for shots fired, Doty said.

"He initially told our officers that if they came near him, he would shoot them," Doty said.

At one point, Dripps raised a weapon that had a scope to his shoulder. Doty said Dripps had a
shotgun and a rifle. Police are investigating whether he owned them legally.

T he wounded officers were part of the SWAT  team and came from the Geneva and Hanover Park
police departments and the Kane County sheriff’s office. None of the officers’ names were
released.

Geneva Cmdr. Julie Nash said her department’s injured officer was treated at a hospital and
released.

T he injured officer from Hanover Park Police Department was a 32-year-old man and six-year
veteran of the department, authorities said in a Facebook post Wednesday night.

"We are relieved that our officer is expected to make a full recovery, and we recognize the risks
and sacrifices that these and other officers all over the country make to keep our communities
safe on a daily basis," the department said.

Hanover Park Village President Rod Craig said, "We wish him, his wife and his young family well."

Kane County sheriff’s spokesman Lt. Patrick Gengler said his agency’s deputy was treated at a
hospital and released. He said the deputy’s name and information probably won’t be released until
T hursday "so he can get some rest before we put that out there."

A fourth officer, who fired the shot that killed Dripps, was taken to the hospital for observation as
per standard procedure in such circumstances, Doty said.

T he Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force’s officer-involved-shooting team is investigating and
will send its report to the Kane County state’s attorney’s office.

"T he area is safe, and it has always been safe. At this point in the investigation we don’t know why
this happened," Doty said.

He said it had been more than 20 years since there was an officer-involved shooting in South Elgin.

Jessica Kling, who lives in a neighboring building, said she’d casually gotten to know Dripps because
he often was outside drinking as she walked her dog in the quiet neighborhood.

"He was a friendly guy, approachable," Kling said.

She said Dripps and his wife, Paula, had moved from California to South Elgin about a year ago. He
wasn’t working, she said, and had a lot of recent health problems.

T he couple lived in the condo unit with members of the family they were leasing it from, Kling said.
T hough the Dripps had a daughter, Kling wasn’t sure where she is living.

Kling said she had just returned from a fireworks display Tuesday night and initially thought
fireworks were going off nearby before realizing the noise was gunfire.

Another neighbor from across the street, Olu Elegbede, said Dripps was always nice and talkative
when he saw him. Dripps encouraged Elegbede’s college studies and his aim to be a civil engineer,
he said. Jeremy Hooley has been living in his family’s condo in the same building as Dripps for about
three months but never got to know him. Nevertheless, he said he was hunkered inside, right
beside where the police standoff with Dripps was taking place late Tuesday and early Wednesday.
He was not evacuated by police and did not feel it was safe for him or his mother to leave, he said.

T hough Hooley monitored the progress of the standoff all night on Facebook, he could not hear

any of the details of what Dripps and police were saying to each other, he said.

Hooley said he called 911 about 2 a.m. Wednesday to make sure police were aware there were
innocent people in his family’s unit.

He peeked out the window after 3 a.m. when both the sound of gunfire and postings on Facebook
seemed to confirm the confrontation was over.

"I haven’t gotten to sleep at all yet," Hooley said in the early afternoon.

A woman from the family from whom Dripps was renting his space in the unit declined to
comment.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Daily Herald

 
Wife: Illinois man killed by police was 'mad' at - Associated Press State
Wire: Illinois (IL) - July 11, 2018
July 11, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

SOUT H ELGIN, Ill. (AP) — Relatives say a suburban Chicago man who was killed by police fired at
officers because he was distraught over financial woes and other problems.

Frank Dripps  was fatally shot on July 4, the climax of an overnight standoff in South Elgin. Police
Frank Dripps
say three officers were shot by Dripps, but their injuries weren't serious.

Dripps' sister, Deborah Martin, tells T he Courier-News that it "pains" the family to know officers
were injured. Paula Dripps says her husband had just learned that his Social Security disability
benefits were being eliminated. T he government also was demanding repayment of $6,000 to
$7,000.

Paula Dripps says, "He was mad at the government."

Police responded to shots fired at the couple's condo. Deborah Martin says her brother wanted to
end his life.

___

Information from: T he Courier-News, http://couriernews.chicagotribune.com/

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Suspect killed, 3 cops wounded - Daily Herald (Arlington Heights, IL) -
July 5, 2018 - page 1
July 5, 2018 | Daily Herald (Arlington Heights, IL) | Susan Sarkauskas and Eric Peterson
ssarkauskas@dailyherald.com epeterson@dailyherald.com | Page 1

A 52-year-old man was killed and three police officers were wounded early Wednesday morning
during a shootout that followed a four-hour standoff on the 300 block of Woodridge Circle in
South Elgin, police said.

T he dead man was identified as Frank Dripps
he left his condominium after a lengthy standoff that began around 11 p.m. Tuesday and ended
around 2:30 a.m.

Frank Dripps , 52, who authorities said opened fire on officers as

T he officers’ injuries were not considered life-threatening, and they all were treated and released
Wednesday, according to their respective departments.

South Elgin police had not had previous contact with Dripps, Sgt. Michael Doty said. He said police
do not yet have a motive for Dripps’ actions and he did not know the full content of the
negotiations the Kane County SWAT  team conducted.

Dripps lived in the condominium, Doty said, and no one else was inside at the time.

T wenty people were displaced during the standoff, and a total of 11 police agencies responded,
Doty said.

Doty said Dripps fired twice at South Elgin officers as they got out of their vehicles around 10:50
p.m. Tuesday and later fired at least once at members of the Kane County SWAT  team.

T he initial call was for shots fired, Doty said.

"He initially told our officers that if they came near him, he would shoot them," Doty said.

At one point, Dripps raised a weapon that had a scope to his shoulder. Doty said Dripps had a
shotgun and a rifle. Police are investigating whether he owned them legally.

T he wounded officers were part of the SWAT  team and came from the Geneva and Hanover Park
police departments and the Kane County sheriff’s office. None of the officers’ names were
released.

Geneva Cmdr. Julie Nash said her department’s injured officer was treated at a hospital and
released.

T he injured officer from Hanover Park Police Department was a 32-year-old man and six-year

veteran of the department, authorities said in a Facebook post Wednesday night.

"We are relieved that our officer is expected to make a full recovery, and we recognize the risks
and sacrifices that these and other officers all over the country make to keep our communities
safe on a daily basis," the department said.

Hanover Park Village President Rod Craig said, "We wish him, his wife and his young family well."

Kane County sheriff’s spokesman Lt. Patrick Gengler said his agency’s deputy was treated at a
hospital and released. He said the deputy’s name and information probably won’t be released until
today "so he can get some rest before we put that out there."

A fourth officer, who fired the shot that killed Dripps, was taken to the hospital for observation as
per standard procedure in such circumstances, Doty said.

T he Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force’s officer-involved-shooting team is investigating and
will send its report to the Kane County state’s attorney’s office.

"T he area is safe, and it has always been safe. At this point in the investigation we don’t know why
this happened," Doty said.

He said it had been more than 20 years since there was an officer-involved shooting in South Elgin.

Jessica Kling, who lives in a neighboring building, said she’d casually gotten to know Dripps because
he often was outside drinking as she walked her dog in the quiet neighborhood.

"He was a friendly guy, approachable," Kling said.

She said Dripps and his wife, Paula, had moved from California to South Elgin about a year ago. He
wasn’t working, she said, and had a lot of recent health problems.

T he couple lived in the condo unit with members of the family they were leasing it from, Kling said.
T hough the Dripps had a daughter, Kling wasn’t sure where she is living.

Kling said she had just returned from a fireworks display Tuesday night and initially thought
fireworks were going off nearby before realizing the noise was gunfire.

Another neighbor from across the street, Olu Elegbede, said Dripps was always nice and talkative
when he saw him. Dripps encouraged Elegbede’s college studies and his aim to be a civil engineer,
he said. Jeremy Hooley has been living in his family’s condo in the same building as Dripps for about
three months but never got to know him. Nevertheless, he said he was hunkered inside, right
beside where the police standoff with Dripps was taking place late Tuesday and early Wednesday.
He was not evacuated by police and did not feel it was safe for him or his mother to leave, he said.

T hough Hooley monitored the progress of the standoff all night on Facebook, he could not hear
any of the details of what Dripps and police were saying to each other, he said.

Hooley said he called 911 about 2 a.m. Wednesday to make sure police were aware there were
innocent people in his family’s unit.

He peeked out the window after 3 a.m. when both the sound of gunfire and postings on Facebook
seemed to confirm the confrontation was over.

"I haven’t gotten to sleep at all yet," Hooley said in the early afternoon.

A woman from the family from whom Dripps was renting his space in the unit declined to
comment.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Daily Herald

 
Man killed in shootout with SWAT team in South - Chicago Sun-Times
(IL) - July 5, 2018
July 5, 2018 | Chicago Sun-Times (IL) | Luke Wilusz

Authorities have identified the man who was fatally shot by police after opening fire on SWAT  team
officers early Wednesday after a standoff in northwest suburban South Elgin.

South Elgin Police Department and Kane County Sheriff's Office SWAT  teams negotiated for nearly
four hours with 52-year-old Frank Dripps
apartment complex, according to South Elgin Police Sgt. Mike Doty.

Frank Dripps , who fired at the officers from the balcony of an

Officers responded about 10:50 p.m. Tuesday to reports of shots fired in the 300 block of
Woodridge Circle, Doty said. When they arrived, Dripps – who lived in the same block – fired two
rounds from a shotgun at officers.

Police evacuated the building and began several hours of negotiations before Dripps opened fire at
the officers a second time about 2:30 a.m. Wednesday, police said. T he officers returned fire,
fatally striking him.

T hree members of the Kane County SWAT  team were wounded in the shootout, police said. T hey
worked for the Geneva Police Department, the Hanover Park Police Department and the Kane
County Sheriff's Office. A fourth officer who was not wounded, but was involved in the shooting,
was taken to a hospital for observation.

South Elgin Fire Protection District Chief Steve Wascher said three of the officers were taken to
Saint Joseph Hospital in Elgin while a fourth was taken to Sherman Hospital in Elgin.

All of the injured officers were in good condition, police said.

T he Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force Officer Involved Shooting Team is investigating the
shooting.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Sun-Times Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

 
The Latest: Police ID gunman killed in Illinois - Associated Press State
Wire: Illinois (IL) - July 4, 2018
July 4, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

SOUT H ELGIN, Ill. (AP) — T he Latest on a police standoff in suburban Chicago (all times local):

Police say a 52-year-old suburban Chicago man who was fatally shot after a four-hour standoff
immediately opened fire on officers as they arrived at his home.

South Elgin Police Sgt. Mike Doty says three officers were "struck by gunfire." He says their injuries
are not life threatening.

Frank Dripps  fired at officers with a shotgun Tuesday night after they were called to his

Police say Frank Dripps
home in South Elgin, about 40 miles (65 kilometers) northwest of Chicago. He then barricaded
himself inside a stairwell of the condominium building where he lived.

Doty says Dripps yelled vulgarities at officers and stated "he would shoot officers if they came at
him." Doty also says Dripps raised his shotgun and a rifle with a scope to his shoulder "off and on"
before police shot and killed him early Wednesday morning.

11:30 a.m.

___

9:15 am

A suburban Chicago police officer fatally shot a man who fired at officers, wounding three, during
an overnight standoff.

T he officers' injuries were not life threatening.

T he Chicago Tribune reports the standoff began late Tuesday when police were called to a home
in South Elgin, about 40 miles (65 kilometers) northwest of Chicago, for a report of shots fired.

Police Sgt. Mike Doty says at least two shotgun blasts were fired at officers as they approached.
Police surrounded the building and evacuated neighboring homes.

Officers began negotiating with the man, who barricaded himself in a stairwell. Police believed he
was armed with a scoped rifle as well as the shotgun.

Police say an officer shot and killed the unidentified man after he fired at police again around 2:30
a.m. Wednesday.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Geneva officer, Kane deputy injured in fatal South - Northwest Herald,
The (Crystal Lake, IL) - July 5, 2018
July 5, 2018 | Northwest Herald, The (Crystal Lake, IL) | bschory@shawmedia.com

SOUT H ELGIN – A Geneva police officer was one of three wounded by gunfire in a fatal overnight
standoff with an armed man in South Elgin, police said.

After nearly four hours of trying to negotiate with him, a man identified as Frank Dripps
out onto the porch of his townhouse in the 300 block of Woodridge Circle in South Elgin and shot
at SWAT  team members who returned fire, killing him, South Elgin Sgt. Michael Doty said.

Frank Dripps , 52, came

"T hree officers were struck by some type of bullet or fragment of bullets," Doty said. "T he three
were transported to the hospital with nonlife-threatening injuries."

T wo of the wounded officers were from the Kane County SWAT  team – a sheriff's deputy and a
Geneva officer who were part of the SWAT  team – and a Hanover Park officer who was assisting,
Kane County Sheriff's spokesman Lt. Pat Gengler said.

T he incident began at 10:50 p.m. July 3 with residents of the 300 block of Woodridge Circle
reporting shots fired at a townhouse building. T he incident ended at 2:38 a.m. July 4 with the
suspect shooting at officers and then being fatally shot himself, Doty said.

When officers first arrived, Dripps fired at them from the first-floor townhouse where he lived,
Doty said.

"Officers immediately took cover and tried to negotiate with the suspect," Doty said. "After a
period of time, a supervisor called … mutual aid for police agencies. Also, the suspect was still
acting erratically and said if police came, he would shoot them."

Multiple police agencies from the area and SWAT  teams from Elgin and Kane County all
responded, Doty said.

"After a period of about four hours of negotiating with the suspect, he exited onto his porch area
and started shooting at SWAT  team members," Doty said. "T hey returned fire and took the
suspect out. … T he suspect was shot at 2:38 a.m."

Dripps had a shotgun and a rifle, Doty said.

Doty could not say how many rounds were fired because that is still under investigation.

T he Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force Officer Involved Shooting Team is investigating the
incident, Doty said.

"T he investigation is ongoing with police speaking with witnesses," Doty said. "Officers will take
time to sort it out."

Gengler said the county's SWAT  officer was treated and released from the hospital.

In an email, Geneva Cmdr. Julie Nash said the injured Geneva officer was treated and released from
the hospital.

Copyrig ht 2018, Northwest Herald, The (Crystal Lake, IL). All Rights Reserved.

 
Geneva officer, Kane deputy injured in fatal South - Daily Chronicle, The
(DeKalb, IL) - July 5, 2018
July 5, 2018 | Daily Chronicle, The (DeKalb, IL) | BRENDA SCHORY

SOUT H ELGIN – A Geneva police officer was one of three wounded by gunfire in a fatal overnight
standoff with an armed man in South Elgin, police said.

After nearly four hours of trying to negotiate with him, a man identified as Frank Dripps
out onto the porch of his townhouse in the 300 block of Woodridge Circle in South Elgin and shot
at SWAT  team members who returned fire, killing him, South Elgin Sgt. Michael Doty said.

Frank Dripps , 52, came

"T hree officers were struck by some type of bullet or fragment of bullets," Doty said. "T he three
were transported to the hospital with nonlife-threatening injuries."

T wo of the wounded officers were from the Kane County SWAT  team – a sheriff's deputy and a
Geneva officer who were part of the SWAT  team – and a Hanover Park officer who was assisting,
Kane County Sheriff's spokesman Lt. Pat Gengler said.

T he incident began at 10:50 p.m. July 3 with residents of the 300 block of Woodridge Circle
reporting shots fired at a townhouse building. T he incident ended at 2:38 a.m. July 4 with the
suspect shooting at officers and then being fatally shot himself, Doty said.

When officers first arrived, Dripps fired at them from the first-floor townhouse where he lived,
Doty said.

"Officers immediately took cover and tried to negotiate with the suspect," Doty said. "After a
period of time, a supervisor called … mutual aid for police agencies. Also, the suspect was still
acting erratically and said if police came, he would shoot them."

Multiple police agencies from the area and SWAT  teams from Elgin and Kane County all
responded, Doty said.

"After a period of about four hours of negotiating with the suspect, he exited onto his porch area
and started shooting at SWAT  team members," Doty said. "T hey returned fire and took the
suspect out. … T he suspect was shot at 2:38 a.m."

Dripps had a shotgun and a rifle, Doty said.

Doty could not say how many rounds were fired because that is still under investigation.

T he Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force Officer Involved Shooting Team is investigating the
incident, Doty said.

"T he investigation is ongoing with police speaking with witnesses," Doty said. "Officers will take
time to sort it out."

Gengler said the county's SWAT  officer was treated and released from the hospital.

In an email, Geneva Cmdr. Julie Nash said the injured Geneva officer was treated and released from
the hospital.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Daily Chronicle, Shaw Newspapers. All Rights Reserved.

 
3 law enforcement officers are injured in fatal - Daily Chronicle, The
(DeKalb, IL) - July 6, 2018
July 6, 2018 | Daily Chronicle, The (DeKalb, IL) | BRENDA SCHORY

SOUT H ELGIN – A Geneva police officer was one of three people wounded by gunfire in a fatal
standoff Wednesday with an armed man in South Elgin, police said.

After about four hours of trying to negotiate with him, a man identified as Frank Dripps
out onto the porch of his townhouse in the 300 block of Woodridge Circle in South Elgin and shot
at SWAT  team members who returned fire, killing him, South Elgin Sgt. Michael Doty said.

Frank Dripps , 52, came

"T hree officers were struck by some type of bullet or fragment of bullets," Doty said. "T he three
were transported to the hospital with non-life-threatening injuries."

T wo of the wounded officers were from the Kane County SWAT  team – a sheriff's deputy and a
Geneva officer who were part of the SWAT  team – and a Hanover Park officer who was assisting,
Kane County Sheriff's spokesman Lt. Pat Gengler said.

T he incident began at 10:50 p.m. Tuesday with residents of the 300 block of Woodridge Circle
reporting shots fired at a townhouse building. T he incident ended at 2:38 a.m. Wednesday, with the
suspect shooting at officers and then being fatally shot, Doty said.

When officers first arrived, Dripps fired at them from the first-floor townhouse where he lived,
Doty said.

"Officers immediately took cover and tried to negotiate with the suspect," Doty said. "After a
period of time, a supervisor called … mutual aid for police agencies. Also, the suspect was still
acting erratically and said if police came, he would shoot them."

Multiple police agencies from the area and SWAT  teams from Elgin and Kane County responded,
Doty said.

"After a period of about four hours of negotiating with the suspect, he exited onto his porch area
and started shooting at SWAT  team members," Doty said. "T hey returned fire and took the
suspect out. … T he suspect was shot at 2:38 a.m."

Dripps had a shotgun and a rifle, Doty said.

Doty could not say how many rounds were fired because that still is under investigation.

T he Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force Officer Involved Shooting Team is investigating the
incident, Doty said.

"T he investigation is ongoing, with police speaking with witnesses," Doty said. "Officers will take
time to sort it out."

Gengler said the county's SWAT  officer was treated and released from the hospital.

In an email, Geneva Cmdr. Julie Nash said the injured Geneva officer was treated and released from
the hospital.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Daily Chronicle, Shaw Newspapers. All Rights Reserved.

 
3 law enforcement officers are injured in fatal - Daily Chronicle, The
(DeKalb, IL) - July 6, 2018
July 6, 2018 | Daily Chronicle, The (DeKalb, IL) | BRENDA SCHORY

SOUT H ELGIN – A Geneva police officer was one of three people wounded by gunfire in a fatal
standoff Wednesday with an armed man in South Elgin, police said.

After about four hours of trying to negotiate with him, a man identified as Frank Dripps
out onto the porch of his townhouse in the 300 block of Woodridge Circle in South Elgin and shot
at SWAT  team members who returned fire, killing him, South Elgin Sgt. Michael Doty said.

Frank Dripps , 52, came

"T hree officers were struck by some type of bullet or fragment of bullets," Doty said. "T he three
were transported to the hospital with non-life-threatening injuries."

T wo of the wounded officers were from the Kane County SWAT  team – a sheriff's deputy and a
Geneva officer who were part of the SWAT  team – and a Hanover Park officer who was assisting,
Kane County Sheriff's spokesman Lt. Pat Gengler said.

T he incident began at 10:50 p.m. Tuesday with residents of the 300 block of Woodridge Circle
reporting shots fired at a townhouse building. T he incident ended at 2:38 a.m. Wednesday, with the
suspect shooting at officers and then being fatally shot, Doty said.

When officers first arrived, Dripps fired at them from the first-floor townhouse where he lived,
Doty said.

"Officers immediately took cover and tried to negotiate with the suspect," Doty said. "After a
period of time, a supervisor called … mutual aid for police agencies. Also, the suspect was still
acting erratically and said if police came, he would shoot them."

Multiple police agencies from the area and SWAT  teams from Elgin and Kane County responded,
Doty said.

"After a period of about four hours of negotiating with the suspect, he exited onto his porch area
and started shooting at SWAT  team members," Doty said. "T hey returned fire and took the
suspect out. … T he suspect was shot at 2:38 a.m."

Dripps had a shotgun and a rifle, Doty said.

Doty could not say how many rounds were fired because that still is under investigation.

T he Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force Officer Involved Shooting Team is investigating the
incident, Doty said.

"T he investigation is ongoing, with police speaking with witnesses," Doty said. "Officers will take
time to sort it out."

Gengler said the county's SWAT  officer was treated and released from the hospital.

In an email, Geneva Cmdr. Julie Nash said the injured Geneva officer was treated and released from
the hospital.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Daily Chronicle, Shaw Newspapers. All Rights Reserved.

 
Man, 52, fatally shot in standoff - 3 officers - Courier News (Elgin, IL) -
July 6, 2018 - page 1
July 6, 2018 | Courier News (Elgin, IL) | Janelle Walker | Page 1

A man asked residents of a South Elgin condo to take care of his wife before he began a four-hour
standoff with police Tuesday night that ended with him dead and three officers injured, according
to police and witnesses.

"Will you take care of Paula?" Frank Dripps
room he rented on Woodridge Circle in South Elgin, according to the son of the condo's owner.

Frank Dripps , 52, said before grabbing a shotgun and a rifle in the

"He said a bunch of weird stuff ... and then went into his room and came out with the guns,"
Matthew Horne said.

South Elgin police officers were called to the condo complex at 10:50 p.m. Tuesday for a report of
shots fired. As they arrived, at least two shotgun blasts were fired at officers, according to police
Sgt. Mike Doty.

T he officers did not return fire but set up a perimeter and evacuated residents, Doty said. SWAT
teams from Elgin and Kane County, as well as officers from South Elgin and 10 area agencies,
began negotiating with the man.

Dripps had barricaded himself in a stairwell, yelling vulgarities at police and threatening to shoot
them if they approached, officials said.

Around 2:30 a.m., Dripps opened fire again and was shot by an officer, Doty said. He died at the
scene.

T hree officers were taken to hospitals for injuries not considered life-threatening, and the officer
who shot the suspect was taken to a hospital for observation, South Elgin officials said.

T he officers were from Geneva, Hanover Park and the Kane County sheriff's office. Officials did
not identify the officers or say where they were hit or the extent of their injuries. T he three injured
officers were treated and released from the hospital Wednesday, officials from the three
departments said.

Doty said he did not know whether police had earlier contact with Dripps. Records indicate he had a
string of arrests when he lived in California several years ago.

Dripps and his wife had moved into the condo several months ago after the condo owner met
Dripps' wife at work, Horne said. He described the couple as "down on their luck."

Horne said that his mother did not know Dripps had the guns until Tuesday night and that he did

not know why Dripps confronted police.

Kathy LaMaide, whose condo is across the street from where the incident happened, said she
heard "gunshots. ... I thought it was someone blowing up trash cans at first."

She was on her balcony Wednesday afternoon as a Kane County Emergency Management mobile
command unit remained stationed outside 325 Woodridge Circle.

LaMaide said she saw police officers arrive on the scene. T hey gave her and her neighbors the
option of evacuating, but she chose to remain in her home, she said. Residents in another building
were ordered to evacuate, LaMaide said.

A SWAT  team arrived, and LaMaide said she later heard more gunshots.

Neighbors were allowed back into their homes around 4:30 a.m., she said.

LaMaide did not know Dripps or the owners of the condo.

"It's a very quiet neighborhood," she said. "People pretty much keep to themselves, which is why it
was such a shock."

Janelle Walker is a freelance reporter for T he Courier-News. Freelance reporter Gloria Casas
contributed.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Courier News. All rights reserved. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED.

 
Family: Man got bad news hours before standoff - - Courier News (Elgin,
IL) - July 11, 2018 - page 1
July 11, 2018 | Courier News (Elgin, IL) | Janelle Walker | Page 1

T he man who shot and injured three law enforcement officers from the stairwell of a South Elgin
condo building last week was beset by health and money problems and driven to desperation by a
final phone call of bad financial news, his family said.

Frank Dripps
Frank Dripps , 52, was shot and killed by police on the Fourth of July, ending an hourslong standoff.
During the incident, Dripps hunkered down with a shotgun and a rifle and fired at officers multiple
times.

In an interview with T he Courier-News, Dripps' wife, sister and parents offered their apologies to
the injured officers. T hey said they don't want to make excuses for Dripps, but they also want to
explain what they believe prompted Dripps' actions that night.

"It pains us that there were officers injured," Dripps' sister Deborah Martin said from her parents'
living room in Batavia.

On July 3, hours before his death, Dripps learned his Social Security benefit was being eliminated,
said his wife, Paula Dripps. A letter addressed to Frank Dripps
monthly Supplemental Security Income would be reduced to $167.50 because of a change in his
family's income. Paula Dripps described that as an error by the Social Security Administration in
calculating her income.

Frank Dripps  dated May 28 said his $750

Frank Dripps  was told his benefit would be cut to zero. In addition,
In a phone call last week, Frank Dripps
Dripps was told he had been overpaid for several months and owed a repayment of $6,000 to
$7,000, his wife said. Dripps had received benefits after he was diagnosed with two diseases that
affected his spine and made it difficult to move and impossible to work, his family said.

"T hey said he was owed nothing and that we owed them," Paula Dripps said. "He was mad at the
government."

T he July 3 phone call - on top of his spinal problems that had sidelined his career as a home
construction contractor as well as depression and feeling "less" for not being able to care for his
wife - was the last straw, Dripps said.

T hat night, Dripps was returning home from work when Frank Dripps
condo roommate and said, "Will you take care of Paula?" Dripps then grabbed the shotgun and
rifle.

Frank Dripps  turned to the couple's

Officers responded to a report of shots fired at the condo at 10:50 p.m. In what his family called a
desperate, misguided attempt to end his life, Dripps fired at police officers as they arrived at the

300 block of Woodridge Circle. Police said at least two shotgun blasts were fired. No one was hit.

Officers did not fire back, but they did evacuate nearby residents. SWAT  teams from Elgin and
Kane County responded, as did officers from 11 area police agencies.

From the stairwell, Dripps yelled at police and threatened to shoot if they approached, officials said.

After nearly four tense hours, Dripps fired at authorities again around 2:30 a.m. and struck three
officers - one from Geneva police, one from Hanover Park police and one from the Kane County
sheriff's department. Authorities shot back, killing Dripps.

"He wanted to end things himself, but he couldn't bring himself to do it," Martin said of her brother.
"He wanted a way for someone else to relieve his pain for him."

T he injured officers were treated and released from the hospital later that day.

Dripps' family conveyed their concern for the injured and for the officer who fired the fatal shot.
"We feel for him," Martin said.

T he family is convinced the news of Dripps' Social Security benefits and debt had set him off, and
they believe he did not want to hurt anyone but himself. At the same time, they are troubled by his
actions during the standoff.

"T he last four hours ... didn't represent the last 10 years of his life," Martin said.

For the past 10 years, Dripps had struggled with spinal deterioration and was given a dual diagnosis
of diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis and ankylosing spondylitis.

Dripps at times had used a wheelchair, scooter, walker and sometimes a cane. A cane was with him
when he was shot.

Since moving to Illinois 13 months ago, Dripps found it difficult to find a health care provider who
would take on his case, his wife said. T here were numerous surgeries over the years - toes
amputated, surgery on both feet, replacement of his left shoulder and plans for a hip replacement.

"He was in constant pain, every day," Paula Dripps said.

Frank Dripps
Frank Dripps  had a criminal record in California, but detailed records were not available, and he
had put those problems behind him, his family said.

Despite those setbacks, Dripps' life took a turn for the better about 10 years ago when he married
Paula Dripps, family said. T he couple, who had been friends for 25 years before their courtship,
were involved in a California church, had recommitted their lives to Christ and were baptized
together, Paula Dripps said.

"He had turned his life around," Martin said. "He was such a changed person in the last 10 years
that makes the last four hours more difficult to understand."

Janelle Walker is a freelance reporter for the Courier-News.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Courier News. All rights reserved. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED.

 

 
A man asked residents of a South Elgin condo to take care of his wife before he began a four-hour standoff with

police Tuesday night that ended with him dead and three officers injured, according to police and witnesses. 

“Will you take care of Paula?” Frank Dripps, 52, said before grabbing a shotgun and a rifle in the room he rented at

325 Woodridge Circle in South Elgin, according to the son of the condo's owner. 

“He said a bunch of weird stuff ... and then went into his room and came out with the guns,” Matthew Horne said. 

South Elgin police officers were called to the condo complex at 10:50 p.m. Tuesday for a report of shots fired. As

they arrived, at least two shotgun blasts were fired at officers, according to police Sgt. Mike Doty. 

The officers did not return fire but set up a perimeter and evacuated residents, Doty said. SWAT teams from Elgin

and Kane County, as well as officers from South Elgin and 10 area agencies, began negotiating with the man. 

Dripps had barricaded himself in a stairwell, yelling vulgarities at police and threatening to shoot them if they

approached, officials said. 

Around 2:30 a.m., Dripps opened fire again and was shot by an officer, Doty said. He died at the scene. 

Three officers were taken to hospitals for injuries not considered life-threatening, and the officer who shot the

suspect was taken to a hospital for observation, South Elgin officials said. 

The officers were from Geneva, Hanover Park and the Kane County Sheriff’s Department. Officials did not identify

the officers or say where they were hit or the extent of their injuries. All three officers were treated and released

from the hospital Wednesday, officials from the three departments said. 

Doty said he did not know if police had earlier contact with Dripps. Records indicate he had a string of arrests

when he lived in California several years ago. 

Dripps and his wife had moved into the condo several months ago after the condo owner met Dripps' wife at work,

Horne said. He described the couple as “down on their luck.” 

He said his mother did not know Dripps had the guns until Tuesday night. Horne did not know why Dripps

confronted police. 

Route 31 (LaFox Street) was closed past State Street during the standoff. 

Kathy LaMaide, whose condo is across the street from where the incident happened, said she heard “gunshots. ... I

thought it was someone blowing up trash cans at first.” 

She was on her balcony Wednesday afternoon as a Kane County Emergency Management mobile command unit

remained stationed outside 325 Woodridge Circle. 

LaMaide said she saw police officers arrive on the scene. They gave her and her neighbors the option of

evacuating, but she chose to remain in her home, she said. Residents in another building were ordered to evacuate,

A SWAT team arrived, and LaMaide said she later heard more gunshots as the drama unfolded. 

Neighbors were allowed back into their homes around 4:30 a.m., she said. 

LaMaide did not know Dripps or the owners of the condo. 

“It’s a very quiet neighborhood,” she said. “People pretty much keep to themselves, which is why it was such a

LaMaide said. 

shock.” 

Janelle Walker is a freelance reporter for The Courier-News. Freelance reporter Gloria Casas contributed. 

Credit: Janelle Walker 
 
 


 
The man who shot and injured three law enforcement officers from the stairwell of a South Elgin condo building

last week was beset by health and money problems and driven to desperation by a final phone call of bad financial

news, his family said. 

Frank Dripps, 52, was shot and killed by police on the Fourth of July, ending an hours-long standoff during which

Dripps hunkered down with a shotgun and a rifle and fired at officers multiple times. 

In an interview with the Courier-News, Dripps’ wife, sister and parents offered their apologies to the injured officers.

They said they don’t want to make excuses for Dripps, but they also want to explain what they believe prompted

Dripps’ actions that night. 

Batavia. 

“It pains us that there were officers injured,” Dripps’ sister Deborah Martin said from her parents’ living room in

On July 3, hours before his death, Dripps learned his Social Security benefit was being eliminated, said his wife,

Paula Dripps. A letter to Frank Dripps dated May 28 said his $750 monthly Supplemental Security Income would be

reduced to $167.50 due to a change in his family’s income. Paula Dripps called that an error by the Social Security

Administration in calculating her income. 

Then in a phone call last week, Frank Dripps was told his benefit would be cut to zero and he had been overpaid for

several months and would owe a repayment of $6,000 to $7,000, his wife said. Dripps had been receiving benefits

after he was diagnosed with two diseases that affected his spine and made it difficult to move and impossible to

work, his family said. 

“They said he was owed nothing and that we owed them,” Paula Dripps said. “He was mad at the government.” 

Police shoot and kill man in South Elgin after 3 officers injured during standoff » 

The July 3 phone call —on top of his spinal problems that had sidelined his career as a home construction

contractor, depression, and feeling “less” for not being able to care for his wife —was the last straw, Paula Dripps

said. 

That night, Paula Dripps was returning home from work when Frank Dripps turned to the couple’s condo roommate

and said, “Will you take care of Paula?” Dripps then grabbed the shotgun and rifle. 

Officers responded to a report of shots fired at the condo at 10:50 p.m. In a desperate, misguided attempt to end

his life, his family said, Dripps fired at police officers as they arrived at the 300 block of Woodridge Circle. Police

said at least two shotgun blasts were fired. No one was hit. 

Officers did not fire back but evacuated nearby residents. SWAT teams from Elgin and Kane County responded as

did officers from 11 area police agencies. 

From the stairwell, Dripps yelled at police and threatened to shoot if they approached, officials said. 

After nearly four tense hours, around 2:30 a.m., Dripps fired at authorities again, striking three officers —one from

Geneva police, one from Hanover Park police and one from the Kane County sheriff’s department. Authorities shot

back, killing Dripps. 

“He wanted to end things himself, but he couldn’t bring himself to do it,” Martin said of her brother. “He wanted a

way for someone else to relieve his pain for him.” 

The injured officers were treated and released from the hospital later that day. 

Dripps’ family conveyed their concern for the injured and for the officer who fired the fatal shot. “We feel for him,”

Martin said. 

shot. 

The family is convinced the news about Dripps’ Social Security benefits and debt had set him off, and they believe

he did not want to hurt anyone but himself. At the same time, they are troubled by his actions during the standoff. 

“The last four hours …didn’t represent the last 10 years of his life,” Martin said. 

For the past 10 years, Dripps had struggled with spinal deterioration and had a dual diagnosis of diffuse idiopathic

skeletal hyperostosis and ankylosing spondylitis. 

Dripps at times had used a wheelchair, scooter, walker and sometimes a cane. A cane was with him when he was

Since moving to Illinois 13 months ago, finding a health care provider who would take on his case proved difficult,

his wife said. There were a bevy of surgeries over the years —toes amputated, surgery on both feet, replacement of

his left shoulder and plans for a hip replacement. 

“He was in constant pain, every day,” Paula Dripps said. 

Dripps had a criminal record in California but detailed records were not immediately available, and he had put

those problems behind him, his family said. 

Despite those setbacks, Frank Dripps’ life took a turn for the better about 10 years ago when he married Paula,

family said. The couple, who had been friends for 25 years before their courtship, got involved in a California

church, recommitted their lives to Christ, and were baptized together, Paula said. 

“He had turned his life around,” Martin said. “He was such a changed person in the last 10 years that makes the

last four hours more difficult to understand.” 

Janelle Walker is a freelance reporter.  

Company / organization:

Name: Hanover Park; NAICS: 524210; Name: Social Security Administration; NAICS:

Credit: Janelle Walker 
 
 


 
A man asked residents of a South Elgin condo to take care of his wife before he began a four-hour standoff with

police Tuesday night that ended with him dead and three officers injured, according to police and witnesses.  

"Will you take care of Paula?" Frank Dripps, 52, said before grabbing a shotgun and a rifle in the room he rented on

Woodridge Circle in South Elgin, according to the son of the condo's owner. 

"He said a bunch of weird stuff ... and then went into his room and came out with the guns," Matthew Horne said. 

South Elgin police officers were called to the condo complex at 10:50 p.m. Tuesday for a report of shots fired. As

they arrived, at least two shotgun blasts were fired at officers, according to police Sgt. Mike Doty. 

The officers did not return fire but set up a perimeter and evacuated residents, Doty said. SWAT teams from Elgin

and Kane County, as well as officers from South Elgin and 10 area agencies, began negotiating with the man. 

Dripps had barricaded himself in a stairwell, yelling vulgarities at police and threatening to shoot them if they

approached, officials said. 

Around 2:30 a.m., Dripps opened fire again and was shot by an officer, Doty said. He died at the scene. 

Three officers were taken to hospitals for injuries not considered life-threatening, and the officer who shot the

suspect was taken to a hospital for observation, South Elgin officials said. 

The officers were from Geneva, Hanover Park and the Kane County sheriff's office. Officials did not identify the

officers or say where they were hit or the extent of their injuries. The three injured officers were treated and

released from the hospital Wednesday, officials from the three departments said. 

Doty said he did not know whether police had earlier contact with Dripps. Records indicate he had a string of

arrests when he lived in California several years ago. 

Dripps and his wife had moved into the condo several months ago after the condo owner met Dripps' wife at work,

Horne said. He described the couple as "down on their luck." 

Horne said that his mother did not know Dripps had the guns until Tuesday night and that he did not know why

Dripps confronted police. 

Kathy LaMaide, whose condo is across the street from where the incident happened, said she heard "gunshots. ... I

thought it was someone blowing up trash cans at first." 

She was on her balcony Wednesday afternoon as a Kane County Emergency Management mobile command unit

remained stationed outside 325 Woodridge Circle. 

LaMaide said she saw police officers arrive on the scene. They gave her and her neighbors the option of

evacuating, but she chose to remain in her home, she said. Residents in another building were ordered to evacuate,

LaMaide said. 

A SWAT team arrived, and LaMaide said she later heard more gunshots. 

Neighbors were allowed back into their homes around 4:30 a.m., she said. 

LaMaide did not know Dripps or the owners of the condo. 

"It's a very quiet neighborhood," she said. "People pretty much keep to themselves, which is why it was such a

shock." 

---------- 

Freelance reporter Gloria Casas contributed. 

CREDIT: By Janelle Walker, The Courier-News; Freelance reporter Gloria Casas contributed. 
 
 


Prosecutor: Fatal Tennessee police shooting was - Associated Press
State Wire: Tennessee (TN) - June 12, 2018
June 12, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN)

JONESBOROUGH, T enn. (AP) — A Tennessee prosecutor says a police officer was justified in a
fatal shooting earlier this year in which a man charged at him with a large knife.

District Attorney General Ken Baldwin said in a letter Monday to the Tennessee Bureau of
Investigation that an investigation showed no inappropriate actions by Jonesborough Officer Chad
Reece. T he Johnson City Press reports that Reece shot 26-year-old M ark Clinton H arrell
Church Hill three times in March.

M ark Clinton Harrell Jr. of

Police had been dispatched to a motel on a report of suspicious activity involving another man,
who they found in a car. When officers approached the vehicle, Harrell exited with the knife.

Baldwin said Harrell was given multiple opportunities to drop the machete-like weapon and Reece
only fired when Harrell charged at him swinging the knife.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Church Hill man dies in Jonesborough officer- - Bristol Herald Courier
(VA) - March 16, 2018
March 16, 2018 | Bristol Herald Courier (VA) | Staff Writer

JONESBOROUGH, T enn.—A Church Hill man died Friday as the result of an officer-involved
shooting in Jonesborough, the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation said.

Just before 1 p.m., Jonesborough officers responded to a hotel along U.S. Highway 11E on the
report of possible drug activity, the T BI said in a news release. Officers soon located a man,
identified as M ark Clinton H arrell
harm himself before leading officers on a foot pursuit, authorities said. Officers pursued the man
as he ran across the highway.

M ark Clinton Harrell Jr., 26, in the parking lot. He had a large knife and threatened to

Officers ordered the man to drop the weapon, but he refused, the release states. At some point,
the man reportedly moved toward one of the officers with the knife, it adds. T he situation
escalated and the officer fired his service weapon, striking the man.

Harrell was taken to the hospital where he died, said the T BI, which continues to investigate.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Bristol Herald Courier, Bristol, VA

 
Church Hill man fatally shot by police in - Rogersville Review, The (TN)
- March 19, 2018
March 19, 2018 | Rogersville Review, The (TN) | Staff report

JONESBOROUGH — T he Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, late Friday, March 16, identified the
man fatally shot by police on Hwy. 11E in Jonesborough earlier that afternoon as M ark Clinton
M ark Clinton
H arrell, Jr., 26, of Church Hill.
H arrell

At the request of 1st District Attorney General Tony Clark, T BI Special Agents were called in to
investigate circumstances involved in the shooting.

Preliminary information indicates that just before 1 p.m., the Jonesborough Police Department
received a complaint concerning possible drug activity at a hotel along East Jackson Boulevard/
Hwy. 11E.

Upon arrival, officers encountered a male subject in the parking lot. T he man allegedly displayed a
large knife and threatened to harm himself before leading officers on a foot pursuit. T he chase
crossed over E. Jackson Boulevard and ended in the 400 block.

Officers continued to give the individual orders to drop the weapon, but he refused to comply. At
some point during the second confrontation, the subject reportedly moved toward one of the
officers with the knife. T he situation further escalated and resulted in the officer firing his service
weapon, striking Harrell.

Harrell was transported to a local hospital where he was pronounced dead.

No officers were injured during the incident.

T BI Special Agents will gather any and all relevant interviews and evidence as part of this ongoing
investigation, a news release said.

"T hroughout the process, Agents will submit investigative findings to the District Attorney General
for his review and consideration," the release continued.

T BI does not identify officers involved in such incidents and instead refers questions of that nature
to their respective department.

Copyrig ht © 2018, The Rog ersville Review, All Rights Reserved.

 
TBI Identifies Man Shot To Death by Police in - Advocate and Democrat,
The (Sweetwater, TN) - March 16, 2018
March 16, 2018 | Advocate and Democrat, The (Sweetwater, TN) | Staff Report

JONESBOROUGH – T he Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, at 5:45 p.m. Friday, March 16,
identified the man fatally shot by police on Highway 11E earlier in the afternoon as M ark Clinton
M ark Clinton
H arrell, Jr., 26, of Church Hill.
H arrell

At the request of 1st District Attorney General Tony Clark, T BI Special Agents are investigating the
circumstances that led to an officer-involved shooting Friday afternoon in Jonesborough.

Preliminary information indicates that just before 1:00 p.m., the Jonesborough Police Department
received a complaint concerning possible drug activity at a hotel located along East Jackson
Boulevard/ Highway 11E. Upon arrival, officers encountered a male subject in the parking lot. T he
man displayed a large knife and threatened to harm himself before leading officers on a foot
pursuit. T he foot pursuit crossed over E. Jackson Boulevard and ended in the 400 block. Officers
continued to give the individual orders to drop the weapon, but he refused to comply. At some
point during the second confrontation, the subject reportedly moved toward one of the officers
with the knife. T he situation further escalated and resulted in the officer firing his service weapon,
striking the subject. He was transported to a local hospital where he was pronounced dead. No
officers were injured during the incident.

T BI Special Agents will gather any and all relevant interviews and evidence as part of this ongoing
investigation. Throughout the process, Agents will submit investigative findings to the District
Attorney General for his review and consideration.

Additionally, the T BI does not identify officers involved in these types of incidents and instead
refers questions of that nature to their respective department.

Updates on this investigation will be posted online at T BINewsroom.com as they are available.

Copyrig ht © 2018, The Advocate and Democrat, All Rights Reserved.

 
TBI Continues Probe Into Officer-Involved Shooting - Greeneville Sun,
The (TN) - March 19, 2018
March 19, 2018 | Greeneville Sun, The (TN) | Ken Little Staff Writer

T he Tennessee Bureau of Investigation continues its investigation into an officer-involved
shooting incident Friday afternoon in Jonesborough.

T he knife-wielding man shot by a police officer died, according to a news release from the T BI.

T he man is identified by the T BI as M ark Clinton H arrell

M ark Clinton Harrell Jr., 26, of Church Hill.

T he news release said that just before 1 p.m. Friday, Jonesborough police officers received a
complaint about possible drug activity at a hotel on East Jackson Boulevard and Highway U.S. 11E.

On arrival, officers encountered a man in the parking lot. He "displayed a large knife and
threatened to harm himself before leading officers on a foot pursuit," according to the news
release.

T he foot pursuit crossed over East Jackson Boulevard and ended in the 400 block of the road.
Officers continued to give the man orders to drop the weapon, but he refused to comply, the
report says.

"At some point during the second confrontation, the subject reportedly moved toward one of the
officers with the knife. T he situation further escalated and resulted in the officer firing his service
weapon, striking the subject," the release says.

T he man, who was not identified, was taken to a nearby hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

No officers were injured during the incident.

"T BI special agents will gather any and all relevant interviews and evidence as part of this ongoing
investigation," the release says.

T he T BI was requested to investigate the shooting incident by Tony Clark, 1st Judicial District
attorney general, whose district includes Washington County.

"T hroughout the process, agents will submit investigative findings to (Clark) for his review and
consideration," the release said.

T he T BI "does not identify officers involved in these types of incidents and instead refers questions
of that nature to their respective department," the release adds.

Copyrig ht 2018, Greeneville Sun, All Rights Reserved.

 

Officers' body camera footage released in Aug. 7 - Herald-Times
(Bloomington, IN) - August 28, 2018
August 28, 2018 | Herald-Times (Bloomington, IN) | Abby Tonsing

T he Monroe County Sheriff's Office on Tuesday released the body camera footage of the Aug. 7
police-action shooting that killed a 24-year-old Bloomington man.

T he footage from Deputies Don T eague and Deandre Moxley show how quickly the fatal shooting
unfolded in a wooded area behind a mobile home in southwestern Monroe County.

In about six seconds, the two deputies fired at least 15 shots at Daniel B oyer
say pointed a loaded handgun at the officers there to serve arrest warrants.

Daniel B oyer, who investigators

Boyer, whose face and injuries were redacted in the body camera footage released to T he Herald-
T imes, sustained four gunshot wounds. T he bullet that killed Boyer entered through the front of
his thigh, traveled upward and penetrated his aorta, liver and lung.

T hat Tuesday morning, T eague, a field training officer, had been paired with Moxley, a rookie
deputy. T he body camera footage released for T eague is 7 minutes and 24 seconds long;
Moxley's is less than two minutes.

T hirty-seven seconds into T eague's footage, he yells, "Sheriff's Office, stop. Right now."

Four seconds later, the gunfire starts in a rapid-fire succession that continues for about six
seconds until Boyer stops running and crumples to the ground.

In Moxley's body camera footage, he draws his weapon and starts shooting after T eague fires his
first four shots.

T eague reports to dispatchers that shots have been fired and a man is down. T he deputies then
start yelling at Boyer to put his hands up.

He doesn't, he can't. He's incapacitated.

"T he weapon's down on the ground, right here. Unknown if anybody else has a weapon," T eague
says while Deputy Moxley cuffs Boyer and another deputy unloads the ammunition from Boyer's
handgun into the grass. T his is about a minute after the last shot was fired.

T he remainder of T eague's body camera footage shows the deputies struggling to find a safe
way to carry the injured Boyer out of the woods and to the road that medics and firefighters can
access.

T he deputies don't know how many people remain inside the Tower Road mobile home, and who

may be armed with guns.

Sheriff Brad Swain described the scene hours after the police action shooting. "T he male subject
who they had been looking for came out the back door with a handgun, pointed it at the deputies
and said a comment to the effect of 'f--- this,'" Swain said during an Aug. 7 press conference at
the scene of the shooting.

T he body camera footage isn't as clear as Swain's description.

Foliage and trees fill the foreground as the deputies surround the wooded area behind the mobile
home, and the footage shakes and blurs as the deputies run and yell at Boyer to stop. T hen, the
deputies' forearms, hands and 9 mm Glock 17 handguns take over the foregrounds during the
shooting.

Boyer comes into focus as he staggers and falls to the ground.

T he four deputies and two sergeants that went to the 5996 W. Tower Road residence that
morning had information that Boyer, who was wanted on methamphetamine charges, was there.
Boyer had run from deputies out of the back of the mobile home before, the sheriff said.

T eague and Moxley were placed on paid administrative leave for 14 days during an internal
investigation into the shooting and Boyer's death.

T he Monroe County Prosecutor's Office last week determined the police-action shooting was
justified, and both deputies returned to full and active duty on Aug. 22.

In a press release issued Friday, Sheriff Brad Swain said Boyer's family requested a private viewing
of the footage. T hat happened late Tuesday afternoon before footage was released to the media.

© Copyrig ht 2018 Herald-Times. All rights reserved.

 

Autopsy shows man killed by deputies had four - Herald-Times
(Bloomington, IN) - August 8, 2018
August 8, 2018 | Herald-Times (Bloomington, IN) | Abby Tonsing

Preliminary autopsy results for a Bloomington man killed Tuesday morning in a police-action
shooting revealed Monroe County deputies shot him four times.

Daniel Boyer pointed a loaded handgun at Deputies Don T eague and Deandre Moxley
Police say Daniel B oyer
as they served arrest warrants at a mobile home in southwestern Monroe County. Boyer, 24, died
from his injures at 10:01 a.m. Tuesday at IU Health Bloomington Hospital.

Boyer received two gunshot wounds to his left thigh, one to his right index finger and a superficial
wound to his lower right back, Monroe County Coroner Joani Shields said after Wednesday
morning's autopsy in T erre Haute.

T he coroner did not release a cause of death for Boyer and declined to answer questions, citing an
ongoing investigation. Results from toxicology tests are also pending.

Four deputies and two sergeants went to a mobile home at 5996 W. Tower Road, off Ison Road,
to serve an arrest warrant to 33-year-old Tiffany Nicole Flynn after a home detention violation in a
pending drug case.

Deputies also had information that Boyer, who was wanted on methamphetamine charges, might
also be there.

Deputies T eague and Moxley approached the back of the mobile home from the woods, as Boyer
had in the past fled out the back door of the Tower Road residence during deputies' previous
attempts to serve warrants.

Sheriff Brad Swain said Boyer, armed with a loaded semi-automatic handgun, cursed and pointed
the gun at the two deputies.

T eague and Moxley, who were both wearing body cameras, fired their 9 mm Glock 17 handguns,
striking Boyer four times and killing him.

T eague has been a deputy since Jan. 22, 2013. He is a certified instructor, specializing in physical
tactics, standardized sobriety testing and field training. He has also serves in the Marine Corps
Reserves and has been deployed to Iraq, according to Capt. Ryan Davis of the Monroe County
Sheriff's Office.

Moxley is a rookie deputy and started at the sheriff's office on Jan. 29. He graduated from the
Indiana Law Enforcement Academy in May, and was paired with T eague for field training on
T uesday.

Both deputies have been placed on paid administrative leave during an internal investigation into
Boyer's death.

Aside from Flynn, two women and a 16-year-old boy were inside the mobile home at the time of
the police-action shooting.

Heather N. Bright, 31, who lives at the Tower Road mobile home, has been charged with
possession of methamphetamine. She was booked into the Monroe County Jail Tuesday morning
and is being held on a $2,500 bond.

T he teen on Tuesday morning appeared to be under the influence of alcohol or drugs, so he was
transported to the hospital for an evaluation. He was then taken to a juvenile detention center on
charges of robbery and auto theft in an unrelated case, according to Bloomington police Sgt. Jason
Shaevitz.

Bloomington police had been looking for the teen in connection with an Aug. 2 theft of a black
2007 Dodge Caliber during a fight at an apartment complex pool. T he teen does not have legal
guardians and is a chronic runaway who recently left a facility in Indianapolis.

Court records indicate that about 8 o'clock the night of May 23, a Monroe County judge approved
a warrant to search Boyer's West County Club Drive house. Indiana State Police reported finding
meth and three loaded handguns.

A week later, police filed drug charges against Flynn: dealing meth, possession of meth, possession
of a controlled substance, possession of a legend drug, possession of paraphernalia and
maintaining a common nuisance.

Court records indicate she was arrested May 31 and spent a week in jail before posting bond and
getting released on home detention. A notice of noncompliance and warrant were issued by the
court, and police were at the mobile home Tuesday to serve that as well as the warrants for
Boyer's arrest if he was there.

-- HT  reporter Laura Lane contributed to this report.

© Copyrig ht 2018 Herald-Times. All rights reserved.

 

 
Publication: Indiana Daily Student, Indiana University, Bloomington IN. 

A 24-year-old Bloomington man died after being shot by two Monroe County Sheriff’s Deputies on Tuesday

morning, according to Monroe County Sheriff Brad Swain.  

Daniel Boyer was identified by Monroe County Coroner Joani Shields as the victim of the shooting.  

The deputies were serving arrest warrants in the 5900 block of Tower Road, about four miles outside Bloomington,

when the shooting occurred.  

According to an email from Swain, Boyer exited the rear of a mobile home with a handgun and pointed it at two

deputies, who shot him. At a news conference Tuesday afternoon, Swain said Boyer's gun was a loaded, semi-

automatic handgun, but it was his understanding that Boyer had not fired any shots.  

Deputies administered first aid and CPR on Boyer and he was transported to IU Health Bloomington Hospital.

Swain said it was reported to him by a deputy at the hospital that Boyer died.  

The scene of this morning's officer-involved shooting that left one man dead in the 5900 block of West Tower

Road. Police preparing to collect evidence. pic.twitter.com/zNM9miBYW1 —Abby Tonsing (@abbytonsing) August

Swain said both the Bloomington Police Department and Indiana State Police responded and are assisting the

According to an Indiana Public Media article, it remains unclear how many shots were fired and how many times

7, 2018  

Boyer was hit.  

Monroe County Sheriff's Department.  

Police are not releasing the identities of the two deputies who shot Boyer, although Swain said they were not

injured and were both wearing body cameras. Swain said the deputies will be on paid, administrative leave during

the investigation into the shooting.  

During his news conference, Swain said besides Boyer, there were also three adult women and a 16-year-old boy at

the mobile home at the time of the shooting. According to the Herald-Times, the 33-year-old woman who lives at

the mobile home was wanted on a home detention violation warrant, while Boyer was wanted on a warrant

charging dealing in methamphetamine and possession of methamphetamine.  

According to the Herald-Times, the teenage boy was transported to the hospital with medical issues, which may

BPD's Critical Incident Response Team and the Lenco BearCat armored truck were deployed to the scene following

CIRT leaving the scene. pic.twitter.com/uwmugixSc3 —Abby Tonsing (@abbytonsing) August 7, 2018  

Bloomington Police Chief Mike Diekhoff told the Herald-Times the CIRT and armored truck were requested to help

clear the mobile home to make sure no one was still inside it.  

Like what you're reading? Support independent, award-winning college journalism on this site. Donate here.  

have been drug-induced.  

the shooting.  

Credit: Cameron Drummond 
 


Monroe County sheriff to release footage of - Herald-Times
(Bloomington, IN) - August 24, 2018
August 24, 2018 | Herald-Times (Bloomington, IN) | HT Report

Body camera footage of an officer-involved shooting from earlier this month may soon be made
available to the public.

T he Monroe County Sheriff's Office announced Friday its intent to release footage from the Aug. 7
incident, during which deputies shot 24-year-old Daniel B oyer
Daniel Boyer of Bloomington. According to
police, Boyer pointed a loaded handgun at deputies Don T eague and Deandre Moxley as they
served arrest warrants at a mobile home in southwestern Monroe County.

In response, the two deputies fired their guns, striking Boyer four times. Boyer later died of his
injuries.

Now that the Monroe County Prosecutor's Office has reviewed the case and determined there
was no further action needed, Sheriff Brad Swain is offering Boyer's family the chance to review
the footage.

T he news release states that footage will be distributed to media after the private viewing takes
place.

© Copyrig ht 2018 Herald-Times. All rights reserved.

 
Man has died after deputy-involved shooting - Herald-Times
(Bloomington, IN) - August 7, 2018
August 7, 2018 | Herald-Times (Bloomington, IN) | Abby Tonsing and Laura Lane 812-331-4245 |
atonsing@heraldt.com 812-331-4362 | llane@heraldt.com

Police say a 24-year-old Bloomington man pointed a handgun at two deputies approaching to
serve arrest warrants Tuesday morning, and died from injuries received when the officers shot
him.

Daniel Boyer was pronounced dead at 10:01 a.m. Tuesday at IU Health Bloomington Hospital.
Daniel B oyer

T hree women and a 16-year-old boy were inside the mobile home at 5966 W. Tower Road at the
time of the police-action shooting. T he teenager was also transported to the hospital with medical
issues Monroe County Sheriff Brad Swain described as a possible drug reaction.

Monroe County Coroner Joanie Shields released preliminary autopsy results for Boyer, which
determined he sustained a total of four gunshot wounds: one to his right index finger, two to his
left thigh and a superficial wound to his lower right back. Toxicology results are still pending and no
further information is available at this time, as this is an ongoing investigation.

Deputies arrived at the Tower Road residence Tuesday morning to serve a warrant for a home
detention violation to a 31-year-old woman who lives at the mobile home. T hey also had
information that Boyer, who was wanted on drug charges, might also be inside.

Swain said two deputies approached the back of the mobile home from a wooded area because
Boyer had in the past fled from police from out the back door there during previous attempts to
serve warrants.

Additional deputies were parked in the driveway of the property, which is nestled in a wooded area
alongside a gravel road that runs north of Tower Road, off Ison Road, at its dead end.

"T he male subject who they had been looking for came out the back door with a handgun, pointed
it at the deputies and said a comment to the effect of 'f--- this,'" Swain said.

T he sheriff said Boyer held a loaded semi-automatic handgun.

Both deputies fired their service weapons at Boyer, striking him. T hen they rendered first aid and
CPR until medics arrived.

T he sheriff did not name the two deputies involved in the police-action shooting.

"We won't release their names for now, give them some time to decompress," Swain said during a
press conference Tuesday afternoon.

One is an experienced deputy and training officer who served in Iraq and is in the Marine Corps
Reserves. T he other deputy is a rookie, just out of the police academy and completing his field
training.

T hey have been placed on paid administrative leave while the sheriff's department conducts an
internal investigation into Boyer's death.

"Should I have a need for an external investigation or another agency to assist, that's just a matter
of me making a phone call and requesting the assistance," Swain said.

Both deputies were wearing body cameras at the time of the shooting. Swain did not know how
many shots were fired, and said his understanding is that Boyer did not fire his weapon.

Bloomington police officers, Indiana State Police troopers and Van Buren Township firefighters
also responded to the scene in southwestern Monroe County.

T he sheriff's department requested assistance from Bloomington's Critical Incident Response
T eam, which used flash grenades to clear the mobile home, making sure no one was still inside
after the shooting.

Police had already transported the women and teen to the sheriff's station for questioning when
the CIRT  members arrived in their armored BearCat. Animal control officers seized a pitbull dog
from the mobile home.

Swain said the teen recently had left an Indianapolis juvenile facility and is related to one of the
women. Swain said the two had arrived at the mobile home minutes before deputies came with the
arrest warrants.

According to Monroe County court records, Boyer, of 712 W. Country Club Drive, had been
charged with multiple offenses over the past year involving methamphetamine and one charging
illegal gun possession.

Last November, police charged him with dealing and possessing meth, and he spent T hanksgiving
and Christmas in the Monroe County Jail under a $15,500 bond.

In March, a judge released Boyer from jail on his own recognizance and put him on house arrest.

But when he failed to appear for a June court hearing, a warrant was issued for his arrest and
return to jail.

T hen last Friday, Monroe Circuit Judge Mary Ellen Diekhoff found probable cause for four new
charges and issued a second warrant for dealing more than 10 grams of meth, possession of
more than 28 grams of meth, possession of an altered handgun and possession of paraphernalia.

Deputies who went to arrest him Tuesday morning at the Tower Road mobile home arrived with
two warrants for his arrest.

T hose charges carried a $30,500 bond, but Boyer would have been held without bond because of
the previous warrant for not showing up in court.

Court records indicate that when eight Indiana State Police troopers and detectives searched
Boyer's County Club Drive house on May 23, they found meth and smoking devices in his
bedroom.

T hey also found three handguns: a Taurus 9mm loaded with nine bullets; a .45-caliber with the
serial number scratched off that was loaded with 10 bullets; and a .380-caliber handgun with 11
rounds of ammunition.

© Copyrig ht 2018 Herald-Times. All rights reserved.

 
Coroner releases cause and manner of death in - Herald-Times
(Bloomington, IN) - August 10, 2018
August 10, 2018 | Herald-Times (Bloomington, IN) | Abby Tonsing

A bullet that entered Daniel B oyer
cause of death for the Bloomington man shot and killed by police this week.

Daniel Boyer's thigh and traveled into his abdomen and chest is listed as the

Police say Boyer pointed a loaded handgun at Deputies Don T eague and Deandre Moxley as they
served arrest warrants Tuesday morning at a mobile home in southwestern Monroe County. Both
deputies fired their 9 mm Glock 17 handguns, striking Boyer four times.

T he 24-year-old died at 10:01 a.m. Tuesday at IU Health Bloomington Hospital.

Monroe County Coroner Joani Shields released the cause and manner of death for Boyer by email
Friday morning, following a Wednesday morning autopsy in T erre Haute. Results from toxicology
tests remain pending.

According to Shields, the bullet that killed Boyer entered through the front of his left thigh, traveled
upwards and penetrated his aorta, liver and lung. "Preliminary cause of death is gunshot wound to
the abdomen and chest with preliminary manner as homicide," she said.

A second bullet that struck the same thigh exited from the lower left side of Boyer's back. A third
shot entered the right index finger at the second knuckle and the bullet became lodged in his wrist.

And, a fourth gunshot wound was to the left side of Boyer's back. T he coroner described this injury
as a superficial wound with the bullet exiting four inches from where it entered.

"T o be clear, there is no way of knowing which gunshot wound happened first," Shields said.

Four Monroe County sheriff's deputies and two sergeants went to a mobile home at 5996 W.
T ower Road, off Ison Road, to serve arrest warrants. T he deputies had information that Boyer,
who was wanted on methamphetamine charges, was also at the mobile home Tuesday morning.

Deputies T eague and Moxley have been placed on paid administrative leave during an internal
investigation into Boyer's death. T eague, a field training officer, had been paired with Moxley, a
rookie deputy, on T uesday.

Both deputies were wearing body cameras at the time of the police-action shooting. Capt. Ryan
Davis said Friday the sheriff's office will release the body camera footage to the media after the
Monroe County Prosecutor's Office reviews the case.

© Copyrig ht 2018 Herald-Times. All rights reserved.

 
Police bullet that killed Bloomington man hit - Associated Press State
Wire: Indiana (IN) - August 10, 2018
August 10, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Indiana (IN)

BLOOMINGT ON, Ind. (AP) — A coroner says the bullet that killed a Bloomington man who pointed
a handgun at officers entered his thigh and traveled upward, penetrating his aorta, liver and a lung.

T he Herald-T imes reports Monroe County Coroner Joani Shields released the cause and manner of
death for 24-year-old Daniel B oyer
Results from toxicology tests are pending.

Daniel Boyer on Friday following a Wednesday autopsy in T erre Haute.

Monroe County Sheriff Brad Swain has said Boyer pointed a loaded handgun at Deputies Don
T eague and Deandre Moxley while they served arrest warrants Tuesday morning at a mobile
home in southwestern Monroe County. Both deputies fired their handguns, striking Boyer four
times.

T eague and Moxley have been placed on paid administrative leave during an internal investigation
into Boyer's death.

___

Information from: T he Herald T imes, http://www.heraldtimesonline.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Deputies fatally shoot Bloomington man pointing - Associated Press
State Wire: Indiana (IN) - August 7, 2018
August 7, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Indiana (IN)

BLOOMINGT ON, Ind. (AP) — Authorities say officers fatally shot a Bloomington man after he
pointed a handgun at them.

Monroe County Coroner Joani Shields says 24-year-old Daniel B oyer
10 a.m. Tuesday at a hospital.

Daniel Boyer was pronounced dead about

Monroe County Sheriff Brad Swain tells T he Herald-T imes that two deputies went to a rural home
a couple of miles outside Bloomington.to serve arrest warrants, and Boyer came out with a
handgun and pointed it at them.

Swain said both deputies fired on Boyer, but he could not say how many shots were fired. He said
one of the deputies is a veteran and the other was in field training.

Several men and women who were inside the home were taken to the sheriff's office for
questioning.

___

Information from: T he Herald T imes, http://www.heraldtimesonline.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
Aug. 08--Police say a 24-year-old Bloomington man pointed a handgun at two deputies approaching to serve arrest

warrants Tuesday morning, and died from injuries received when the officers shot him. 

Daniel Boyer was pronounced dead at 10:01 a.m. Tuesday at IU Health Bloomington Hospital. 

Three women and a 16-year-old boy were inside the mobile home at 5966 W. Tower Road at the time of the police-

action shooting. The teenager was also transported to the hospital with medical issues Monroe County Sheriff

Brad Swain described as a possible drug reaction. 

Monroe County Coroner Joanie Shields released preliminary autopsy results for Boyer, which determined he

sustained a total of four gunshot wounds: one to his right index finger, two to his left thigh and a superficial wound

to his lower right back. Toxicology results are still pending and no further information is available at this time, as

this is an ongoing investigation. 

drug charges, might also be inside. 

Deputies arrived at the Tower Road residence Tuesday morning to serve a warrant for a home detention violation

to a 33-year-old woman who lives at the mobile home. They also had information that Boyer, who was wanted on

Swain said two deputies approached the back of the mobile home from a wooded area because Boyer had in the

past fled from police from out the back door there during previous attempts to serve warrants. 

Additional deputies were parked in the driveway of the property, which is nestled in a wooded area alongside a

gravel road that runs north of Tower Road, off Ison Road, at its dead end. 

"The male subject who they had been looking for came out the back door with a handgun, pointed it at the deputies

and said a comment to the effect of 'f--- this,'" Swain said. 

The sheriff said Boyer held a loaded semi-automatic handgun. 

Both deputies fired their service weapons at Boyer, striking him. Then they rendered first aid and CPR until medics

The sheriff did not name the two deputies involved in the police-action shooting. 

"We won't release their names for now, give them some time to decompress," Swain said during a press conference

arrived. 

Tuesday afternoon. 

One is an experienced deputy and training officer who served in Afghanistan and is in the Marine Corps Reserves.

The other deputy is a rookie, just out of the police academy and completing his field training. 

They have been placed on paid administrative leave while the sheriff's department conducts an internal

investigation into Boyer's death. 

"Should I have a need for an external investigation or another agency to assist, that's just a matter of me making a

phone call and requesting the assistance," Swain said. 

Both deputies were wearing body cameras at the time of the shooting. Swain did not know how many shots were

fired, and said his understanding is that Boyer did not fire his weapon. 

Bloomington police officers, Indiana State Police troopers and Van Buren Township firefighters also responded to

the scene in southwestern Monroe County. 

The sheriff's department requested assistance from Bloomington's Critical Incident Response Team, which used

flash grenades to clear the mobile home, making sure no one was still inside after the shooting. 

Police had already transported the women and teen to the sheriff's station for questioning when the CIRT

members arrived in their armored BearCat. Animal control officers seized a pitbull dog from the mobile home. 

Swain said the teen recently had left an Indianapolis juvenile facility and is related to one of the women. Swain

said the two had arrived at the mobile home minutes before deputies came with the arrest warrants. 

According to Monroe County court records, Boyer, of 712 W. Country Club Drive, had been charged with multiple

offenses over the past year involving methamphetamine and one charging illegal gun possession. 

Last November, police charged him with dealing and possessing meth, and he spent Thanksgiving and Christmas

in the Monroe County Jail under a $15,500 bond. 

In March, a judge released Boyer from jail on his own recognizance and put him on house arrest. 

But when he failed to appear for a June court hearing, a warrant was issued for his arrest and return to jail. 

Then last Friday, Monroe Circuit Judge Mary Ellen Diekhoff found probable cause for four new charges and issued

a second warrant for dealing more than 10 grams of meth, possession of more than 28 grams of meth, possession

of an altered handgun and possession of paraphernalia. 

Deputies who went to arrest him Tuesday morning at the Tower Road mobile home arrived with two warrants for

his arrest. 

warrant for not showing up in court. 

Those charges carried a $30,500 bond, but Boyer would have been held without bond because of the previous

Court records indicate that when eight Indiana State Police troopers and detectives searched Boyer's County Club

Drive house on May 23, they found meth and smoking devices in his bedroom. 

They also found three handguns: a Taurus 9mm loaded with nine bullets; a .45-caliber with the serial number

scratched off that was loaded with 10 bullets; and a .380-caliber handgun with 11 rounds of ammunition. 

CREDIT: By Ab Tonsing and Laura Lane 
 
 



 
May 09--A state trooper was justified when he fatally shot a Mertztown man, 26, after he tried to shoplift at a

Walmart near Trexlertown, Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin said Wednesday. 

Martin said Trooper Brian Bird acted within the law when he mortally wounded Aaron Ibrahem shortly after 9 p.m.

March 28 in the parking lot of the store in Lower Macungie Township, a few miles from the Berks line. 

Martin, whose office investigated the incident, said that Bird fired at Ibrahem only after Ibrahem had pointed and

tried to fire a semi-automatic gun at the trooper during a foot chase. During the chase, Martin said, Ibrahem failed

to comply with commands to stop. 

According to state police: 

Ibrahem abandoned a full cart after seeing a trooper had entered the store. He ran from the trooper and pulled a

semi-automatic pistol out of his waistband, firing it once without hitting anyone. 

Ibrahem got into his van and again pointed the gun at Bird about 45 feet away. Bird fired nine times at Ibrahem

through the door and window, striking him seven times. Troopers said witnesses and surveillance videos from the

parking lot supported the trooper's account. No one else was hurt. 
 
 

Name of suspect killed by trooper in Walmart lot - Associated Press
State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA) - March 30, 2018
March 30, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA)

FOGELSVILLE, Pa. (AP) — Authorities have released the name of a suspected shoplifter wearing a
wig and a mask who was shot and killed by a state trooper in a Pennsylvania Walmart parking lot

Aaron Ibrahem  of Mertztown
T he Lehigh County coroner's office said Friday that 26-year-old Aaron Ibrahem
died of multiple gunshot wounds. A ruling on the manner of death is pending completion of the
investigation.

State police said employees of the Lower Macungie Township store called police shortly after 9
p.m. Wednesday. Capt. Richard D'Ambrosio said the suspect abandoned a full cart and fled as a
trooper arrived, then pulled a gun and fired without hitting anyone.

D'Ambrosio said he got in his vehicle and pointed the handgun at the trooper, who fired, striking
him about seven times. A loaded gun was recovered."

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
With his car on fire following a wild police chase in Northampton County in 2014, Aaron Ibrahem held his hand

behind his back as if he had a gun. 

going through a tough time. 

When Colonial Regional police officers drew their Tasers, calling his bluff, Ibrahem surrendered and later went to

jail for the first time in his life. He apologized during his sentencing, telling a judge he had bipolar disorder and was

More than three years later, on Wednesday night, Ibrahem was again running from police, this time as he fled a

shoplifting attempt at a Walmart in Lower Macungie Township. 

But this time, instead of surrendering to the state trooper who had been ordering him to stop during the foot chase

through the parking lot, police say, Ibrahem drew his gun and fired, costing him his life when the trooper returned

nine shots, hitting him multiple times. 

masked man killed in Wednesday's shooting.  

Lehigh County Coroner Scott Grim, in a news release Friday, identified Ibrahem, 26, of Longswamp Township as the

Grim said Ibrahem died from multiple gunshots, adding that he would wait to rule on the manner of death until the

completion of the investigation, which is being handled by three members of the Lehigh County district attorney's

Homicide Task Force and the state police's Major Case Team. 

Authorities said Thursday that early indications point to a justified use of force by the trooper, who has not been

identified. 

State police said Ibrahem fired once at the trooper while fleeing to a white minivan in the Walmart parking lot.

Police said they recovered a .40-caliber Glock from Ibrahem's lap. 

Ibrahem had an extensive criminal history, with four arrests from 2014 to 2016 in Montgomery, Berks and

Northampton counties for crimes ranging from retail theft to aggravated assault and reckless endangerment. 

In two of the four arrests, Ibrahem resisted arrest, fled from police or threatened them with violence. 

During his sentencing for an Aug. 15, 2014, police chase in Hanover Township, Ibrahem told a Northampton County

judge that he struggled with bipolar disorder and his attorney called his attempt to flee from police a "stupid

decision" that happened because of his struggles with his mental health. 

Ibrahem was driving a car with a shattered windshield when a Colonial Regional police officer pulled him over on

Bath Pike. A records check revealed his driver's license was suspended because of a drunken driving arrest and his

car had no registration or insurance. 

Ibrahem pleaded with the officer to cut him a break, but when the officer refused, Ibrahem gunned his car and sped

off, running stop signs, nearly hitting several pedestrians and sideswiping a parked car. Ibrahem drove through

grass fields at a community park, a tree line and business parking lots, police said. 

Three of his tires were flattened during the chase, but Ibrahem kept driving, police said, stopping only when his car

caught fire. 

Ibrahem got out of the burning car and held an unknown object behind his back, indicating he had a gun and

threatened to shoot police. The standoff ended when officers drew their Tasers. 

"When this event occurred, I was going through a tumultuous time. I know that's no excuse," Ibrahem told Judge

Emil Giordano during his sentencing four months after the chase. He was sentenced to 1 1/2 to nine years in state

prison after earlier pleading guilty to reduced charges and was granted parole 10 months later. Giordano

recommended Ibrahem be jailed in a state prison with mental health treatment. 

After the chase, Ibrahem was arrested at least two more times, most recently in May 2016 for retail theft in Upper

Hanover Township in Montgomery County, which landed him in jail for three months. 

While his last arrest was almost two years ago, police suspect he may have still been committing crimes, including

a retail theft March 15 at a Schuylkill County Walmart where the robber wore a mask and pulled a gun on an

employee who confronted him as he fled the store with a shopping cart full of items, police said. 

State police say Ibrahem was wearing a wig and a lifelike mask - the kind seen in horror movies - when he walked

into the Lower Macungie Walmart at 8:50 p.m. Wednesday. 

For 15 minutes, Ibrahem went up and down aisles filling a shopping cart, catching the attention of a loss

prevention officer who remembered the alert given to area Walmart stores after the robbery at the Schuylkill

County store, police said. The loss prevention officer followed Ibrahem and phoned state police at 9:07 p.m. A

trooper arrived in two minutes. 

While looking for the loss prevention officer, the trooper encountered Ibrahem in the vestibule of the store, state

police said. Ibrahem abandoned the shopping cart and began to walk toward the side exit of the store. 

Once Ibrahem stepped out of the store, the trooper ordered him to stop, but Ibrahem took off running through the

parking lot, nearly getting hit by a passing car, police said. Ibrahem fired once at the trooper from 15 yards away

once he reached his minivan, police said. Ibrahem managed to get in the minivan and continued to point his gun at

the trooper, who fired through the van's window and door, police said. 

Police have still not concluded if Ibrahem committed the robbery in Schuylkill County, but Capt. Richard

D'Ambrosio said Thursday that he's "pretty sure" he's the same person. Besides the mask and gun, the Schuylkill

County shoplifter fled in a white minivan similar to the one in the Lower Macungie robbery. 

The trooper, a four-year veteran working his first week at the Fogelsville barracks, has been placed on

administrative duties, as is protocol on all police-involved shootings, D'Ambrosio said. 

Credit: By Manuel Gamiz Jr. - Of The Morning Call 

Caption: Aaron Ibrahem is taken to court in 2014 after one of several arrests he had before Wednesday's fatal

Subject:

Minivans; Criminal sentences; Bipolar disorder; Mental health; Security management;

Robbery; Discount department stores

Company / organization:

Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 452112, 452910, 454111

encounter with a state trooper. 

MORNING CALL file photo 
 
 


 
While fairly certain he's their guy, state police are continuing to investigate whether Aaron Ibrahem, the man shot

dead after he fired at a state trooper last week at a Walmart in Lower Macungie, was behind a string of retail thefts

at Walmarts in Schuylkill County, including one where he pulled a gun on an employee. 

"We're still working on that for a positive confirmation," Lt. Joseph Sokolofksi, head of Troop M's criminal

investigations unit, said. "It would appear by the M.O. and the surveillance footage that it is one and the same." 

Sokolofski said investigators are looking into four shoplifting reports at Walmarts in Schuylkill County that could

be linked to Ibrahem, 26 of Longswamp Township, Berks County. 

He said they began in February and during the last of the four, on March 15, a masked shoplifter was fleeing the

Walmart in Saint Clair with a shopping cart full of electronics when a store employee stopped him. 

The shoplifter pulled a gun and the employee backed away and the shoplifter fled in a white minivan, police said. 

After that crime, store officials alerted employees at other Walmarts, which is what caught the attention of a loss

prevention officer at the Walmart on Millcreek Road in Lower Macungie. 

State police said Ibrahem was wearing a wig and a lifelike mask when he walked into the Lower Macungie Walmart

at 8:50 p.m. Wednesday. A loss prevention officer saw him filling a shopping cart, and grew suspicious because of

the Schuylkill County alert. 

side exit of the store, police said. 

The loss prevention officer phoned state police at 9:07 p.m., and a trooper arrived in two minutes.The trooper

encountered Ibrahem in the vestibule of the store. Ibrahem dumped the shopping cart and started walking out the

Once Ibrahem stepped out of the store, the trooper ordered him to stop, but Ibrahem took off running through the

parking lot, nearly getting hit by a passing car, police said. Ibrahem fired one shot at the trooper from 15 yards

away once he reached his minivan, police said. Ibrahem managed to get in the minivan and continued to point his

gun at the trooper, who fired through the van's window and door, police said. 

Police recovered a .40-caliber Glock on Ibrahem's lap. Besides investigating his connection to the string of

Schuylkill County thefts, police are also looking into how he got the gun, Sokolofski said. 

Ibrahem had an extensive criminal history, which included felonies, and pleaded guilty to leading police on a 2014

chase in Hanover Township, Northampton County, where he threatened to shoot police. During his sentencing for

the chase, Ibrahem told a judge he had bipolar disorder and she recommended he be sent to a state prison where

he could receive mental health treatment. 

Sokolofski said the trooper who fired on Ibrahem continues to be on administrative duties, as is protocol on all

police-involved shootings. The trooper is a four-year veteran who was working his first week at the Fogelsville

barracks. 

mgamiz@mcall.com 

Twitter @mannypantalones 

Credit: By Manuel Gamiz Jr. - Of The Morning Call - mgamiz@mcall.com;Twitter @mannypantalones;610-820-6595 

610-820-6595 

Caption: Ibrahem 
 
 


 
Nov. 15--Pennsylvania State Police presented awards to area law enforcement and EMTs on Wednesday to honor

those who performed "lifesaving actions," including several who helped save state police Cpl. Seth Kelly, who was

shot several times last year in an attack in Plainfield Township. 

The Troop Drill awards were held at the Troop M barracks in Bethlehem that serves Lehigh, Northampton and

Bucks counties. The awards are presented to area police departments and other first responders for "performing

their duties in an "extraordinary manner," according to a news release. 

The following were recognized at the ceremony, which is only open to the honorees and their families: 

* Bushkill Township police officer John Zwally: Following a Nov. 7, 2017, traffic stop along Route 33 in Plainfield

Township, Daniel Clary opened fire on Trooper Ryan Seiple and Cpl. Kelly after they tried to arrest him for driving

under the influence. A gun battle broke out and Kelly was shot several times and nearly bled to death on the side of

the road. Authorities say that when the call for help was broadcast over police scanners, Zwally was one of the

first officers at the scene and performed CPR on Kelly until emergency medical units arrived. 

* Plainfield Township volunteer fire company EMTs Derek Flavelle and James McCammon: Authorities say both

Flavelle and McCammon helped save Kelly's life after he was shot four times. Both were able to restore Kelly's

heart rhythm and maintained his airway before he was loaded onto a medical helicopter. 

* Suburban EMS EMTs Jason Steranko and Jeremy Slack and paramedics Howard Schwartz and David Berger:

Authorities say all four were able to provide crucial medical assistance to Kelly after the shooting. 

* Trooper Michael Patrone: On May 1, Patrone was called to Hugh Moore Park in Easton for a report that a 15-year-

old girl had recently left an inpatient facility and was experiencing suicidal thoughts. Patrone found the girl had

jumped from a bridge over the Lehigh River and jumped in after her. With the help of Palmer Township police

officer Peter Attieh and civilians Antwon Gray, Daquian Holloman and Patrick Barnes, the men were able to save

the girl and take her to a medical facility for help. 

* Trooper Brian Bird: On March 28, Bird was called to the Walmart in Lower Macungie to investigate a man wearing

a mask who was trying to steal items. As troopers confronted Aaron Ibrahem, 26, he pulled out a homemade gun

and fired shots at Bird during a chase. Bird returned fire and Ibrahem died at the scene. The shooting was ruled

justified. 

* Trooper Brennan Long and his partner, Trooper Kyle Yeager: On Aug. 3, the troopers were patrolling Unami Park in

Milford Township, Bucks County, when they found a woman parked in a secluded area. The woman was holding a

knife and made cuts to her wrists, telling the troopers she was trying to kill herself after losing her job and custody

of her children. The troopers provided first aid and helped the woman seek medical and mental health treatment. 

pamela.lehman@mcall.com 

610-820-6790 

CREDIT: By Pamela Lehman 
 
 

Company / organization:

Name: State Police-Pennsylvania; NAICS: 922120; Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS:

452112, 452910, 454111


DA urges reforms after suspect with homemade gun - Hunterdon
County Democrat (Flemington, NJ) - May 13, 2018 - page A19
May 13, 2018 | Hunterdon County Democrat (Flemington, NJ) | Kurt Bresswein | Page A19

REGION

Aaron Ibrahem
Aaron Ibrahem  was a felon prohibited by federal law from buying the handgun he leveled at
police at a Walmart Supercenter, drawing a barrage of bullets that left the 26-year-old dead.

Ibrahem exploited a “serious ‘loophole’” in federal firearms laws to legally purchase key
components of the gun — assembled by hand — that he carried during the incident March 28 in
Lower Macungie T ownship, Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin says in his report on the
shooting.

“I intend to forward this report to area federal and state legislators in the hope that corrective
legislation may be promulgated,” Martin says.

At issue is Ibrahem’s legal purchase over the internet of the serial-numbered slide/barrel, also
known as an upper, for a Glock .40-caliber handgun, according to Martin.

“Ironically, this integral part of the pistol may be purchased legally on the internet (eBay) without
scrutiny — no AT F form required,” Martin wrote. “It is not considered to be a firearm.” It must be
mated to a frame/receiver, or lower, to function.

Ibrahem “could not have legally purchased the frame/receiver,” according to the DA. “But he could
(and did) legally purchase the slide/barrel on the internet.

“It is believed that he then ‘manufactured’ a firearm by obtaining the lower portion (frame/receiver)
of the weapon by purchasing a so-called ‘Polymer 80’ on the internet.”

A Polymer 80 refers to a polymer-of-plastic frame that is 80 percent of a complete handgun,
Martin said. According to polymer80.com, this 80 percent lower receiver may be transferred
without a U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, T obacco, Firearms and Explosives federal firearms license.

T he Polymer 80 is a do-it-yourself project without the holes needed to complete a firearm. A
frame/receiver that has the necessary holes pre-drilled requires an AT F firearms transaction
record designed to prevent purchase by a convict like Ibrahem.

“T he manufacturing process can be easily completed by drilling or machining out the holes to
attach the slide/barrel, trigger parts and other necessary parts,” Martin wrote. “All of those can be
acquired on the internet.”

Likewise the instructions are available on YouTube or the how-to section of polymer80.com, which

does note “a strict policy against selling 80 percent receivers to convisted (sic) felons.”

Somehow, Ibrahem got one, despite crimes in his past “punishable by imprisonment exceeding one
year,” according to Martin; that made Ibrahem a person not to possess firearms under federal law.

“T he point I am making ... is that you can legally purchase everything but a frame without
submitting an AT F form, but in place of a frame that you would have to submit an AT F form for
you can buy one of these Polymer 80s on the internet,” Martin told lehighvalleylive.com.

It’s a common practice, Martin said, citing firearms experts.

“And in my opinion it represents a serious ‘loophole’ that should be closed by legislation at both the
federal and state levels,” he wrote in his report. “Why permit the purchase of firearm parts without
any scrutiny whatsoever by Persons Not to Possess, which they may then easily assemble into a
functional firearm?”"

Copyrig ht 2018 Hunterdon County Democrat. All Rights Reserved.

 

 
May 10--The suspected Walmart shoplifter shot and killed by a state trooper in March was armed with a

homemade gun assembled from parts sold on the internet, even though his criminal record barred him from buying

guns, authorities said in a report clearing the trooper of criminal liability in the incident. 

Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin said Wednesday that Trooper Brian Bird fired his service weapon nine

times at Aaron Ibrahem, 26, who died at the scene March 28 outside the Walmart in Lower Macungie Township. 

Bird fired on Ibrahem only after Ibrahem pointed and tried to fire a semi-automatic weapon at Bird during a foot

chase, authorities say. An employee at Walmart called police after spotting Ibrahem and suspecting he may be tied

to a retail theft at a Schuylkill County store. 

from a Spokane, Wash., sporting goods store. 

Ibrahem's gun was found by investigators to be .40-caliber Glock pistol assembled from parts purchased online

They included a frame that started out as an unfinished part not covered by federal gun laws, and barrel and slide

for the pistol that Ibrahem was able to buy without a background check despite a felony record that prohibited him

from possessing guns, according to Martin's report. 

Unfinished frames, often called 80 percent frames because they represent 80 percent of a working gun, must

undergo additional work with machine tools to become part of a fully functioning firearm. Until then, federal

authorities don't consider them to be a gun. 

addressed by state and federal legislation. 

Martin called the practice of selling the unfinished gun parts without scrutiny a serious loophole that should be

"Why permit the purchase of firearm parts without any scrutiny whatsoever by persons not to possess [a firearm],

which they may then easily assemble into a firearm?" Martin said in a news release about his findings. 

Regulators and advocates for gun law reform say federal authorities are powerless to stop the practice without

input from lawmakers. 

"As of right now, there is nothing we can do," said Charlene Hennessy, spokeswoman for the U.S. Bureau of

Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives in Philadelphia. "We follow the letter of the law and we enforce the law

as it is written so it is up to the lawmakers to change the law." 

Adam Skaggs, chief counsel at the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, said the sale of unfinished

firearms is feeding a growing black market for weapons sought by people who are not able to legally buy guns, or

who live in places like California, where tougher gun laws make them illegal to own. 

"Because the guns don't have serial numbers, because they can't be traced, this is the gun trafficker's best friend,"

Skaggs said. 

He called the police shooting of Ibrahem a tragedy narrowly averted and noted that so-called ghost guns were

used in the 2013 Santa Monica shooting rampage where a 23-year-old man killed his father and three people at a

community college using a rifle he built himself, and in 2017 in Tehama County, Calif., where a 44-year-old man

killed his wife and then opened fire on cars, houses and an elementary school. 

In suburban Philadelphia, police discovered an exchange student who allegedly threatened to shoot up the

Catholic high school he was attending obtained a Glock pistol by buying the parts online, according to published

reports. 

Joshua Prince, a Berks County attorney who specializes in gun law, said, however, that in Ibrahem's case the blame

is improperly placed on unfinished gun parts. He called Martin's call for legislation to require background checks

political grandstanding and said any law to restrict unfinished gun parts would lead to confusion over what exactly

constitutes an unfinished gun. 

"A hunk of aluminum could become a gun or it could become bicycle handlebars," he said. 

It's unclear how Ibrahem came into possession of the gun's lower portion, or frame, which was sold days before

the Lehigh County shooting to a person in Texas, Martin's report says. But it is clear that the frame, at that point,

was altered so it could be fitted with parts to make it a functional firearm and thus was subject to federal firearms

laws when sold to the person in Texas, the report says. For that reason the focus should be on how Ibrahem

obtained it, Prince said. 

(Frank Warner) 

He added that whoever sold Ibrahem the frame could face federal charges for improperly transferring a gun. 

State police investigate a man's death that followed gunfire Wednesday night at the Walmart in Lower Macungie

Township. A trooper was pursuing the man on foot just before shots were fired, witnesses said. 

Martin said he would forward his findings to federal and state legislators in hopes of "corrective legislation." 

"It is not my intent to burden people who may legally possess firearms," Martin said. "However, requiring the filing

of an ATF form for all the parts of a semi-automatic pistol does not seem to me to be too bothersome." 

------ 

ABOUT IBRAHEM'S WEAPON 

10 cartridges. 

From the Lehigh County district attorney office's report on the shooting: 

Ibrahem's Glock semi-automatic pistol had no serial number on the frame. It had one magazine with a capacity for

Only the lower polymer portion of the gun -- without any upper and trigger parts -- was purchased from the Spokane

Archery in Washington by a person from Texas. The purchase was legal. 

The slide/barrel of the gun, known as "uppers," can be purchased on the internet and no ATF form is required

The gun can then be completed by drilling holes to attach the slide/barrel, trigger and other necessary parts. After

because it is not considered to be a firearm. 

assembly, it is a functional semi-automatic pistol. 

------ 

pamela.lehman@mcall.com 

610-820-6790 

CREDIT: By Peter Hall and Pamela Lehman 
 
 


 
Correction: FOR THE RECORD (Published Tuesday, May 15, 2018) - A gun frame sold to a man in Texas was not

part of the homemade gun Aaron Ibrahem had when he was shot by a state trooper March 28 outside the Walmart

in Lower Macungie, according to Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin. A story published Thursday gave

incorrect information. 

The suspected Walmart shoplifter shot and killed by a state trooper in March was armed with a homemade gun

assembled from parts sold on the internet, even though his criminal record barred him from buying guns,

authorities said in a report clearing the trooper of criminal liability in the incident. 

Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin said Wednesday that Trooper Brian Bird fired his service weapon nine

times at Aaron Ibrahem, 26, who died at the scene March 28 outside the Walmart in Lower Macungie Township. 

Bird fired on Ibrahem only after Ibrahem pointed and tried to fire a semi-automatic weapon at Bird during a foot

chase, authorities say. An employee at Walmart called police after spotting Ibrahem and suspecting he may be tied

to a retail theft at a Schuylkill County store. 

from a Spokane, Wash., sporting goods store. 

Ibrahem's gun was found by investigators to be .40-caliber Glock pistol assembled from parts purchased online

They included a frame that started out as an unfinished part not covered by federal gun laws, and barrel and slide

for the pistol that Ibrahem was able to buy without a background check despite a felony record that prohibited him

from possessing guns, according to Martin's report. 

Unfinished frames, often called 80 percent frames because they represent 80 percent of a working gun, must

undergo additional work with machine tools to become part of a fully functioning firearm. Until then, federal

authorities don't consider them to be a gun. 

addressed by state and federal legislation. 

Martin called the practice of selling the unfinished gun parts without scrutiny a serious loophole that should be

"Why permit the purchase of firearm parts without any scrutiny whatsoever by persons not to possess [a firearm],

which they may then easily assemble into a firearm?" Martin said in a news release about his findings. 

Regulators and advocates for gun law reform say federal authorities are powerless to stop the practice without

input from lawmakers. 

"As of right now, there is nothing we can do," said Charlene Hennessy, spokeswoman for the U.S. Bureau of

Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives in Philadelphia. "We follow the letter of the law and we enforce the law

as it is written so it is up to the lawmakers to change the law." 

Adam Skaggs, chief counsel at the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, said the sale of unfinished

firearms is feeding a growing black market for weapons sought by people who are not able to legally buy guns, or

who live in places like California, where tougher gun laws make them illegal to own. 

"Because the guns don't have serial numbers, because they can't be traced, this is the gun trafficker's best friend,"

Skaggs said. 

He called the police shooting of Ibrahem a tragedy narrowly averted and noted that so-called ghost guns were

used in the 2013 Santa Monica shooting rampage where a 23-year-old man killed his father and three people at a

community college using a rifle he built himself, and in 2017 in Tehama County, Calif., where a 44-year-old man

killed his wife and then opened fire on cars, houses and an elementary school. 

In suburban Philadelphia, police discovered an exchange student who allegedly threatened to shoot up the

Catholic high school he was attending obtained a Glock pistol by buying the parts online, according to published

reports. 

Joshua Prince, a Berks County attorney who specializes in gun law, said that in Ibrahem's case, however, the blame

is improperly placed on unfinished gun parts. He called Martin's call for legislation to require background checks

political grandstanding and said any law to restrict unfinished gun parts would lead to confusion over what exactly

constitutes an unfinished gun. 

"A hunk of aluminum could become a gun or it could become bicycle handlebars," he said. 

It's unclear how Ibrahem came into possession of the gun's lower portion, or frame, which was sold days before

the Lehigh County shooting to a person in Texas, Martin's report says. But it is clear that the frame, at that point,

was altered so it could be fitted with parts to make it a functional firearm and thus was subject to federal firearms

laws when sold to the person in Texas, the report says. For that reason the focus should be on how Ibrahem

obtained it, Prince said. 

He added that whoever sold Ibrahem the frame could face federal charges for improperly transferring a gun. 

Martin said he would forward his findings to federal and state legislators in hopes of "corrective legislation." 

"It is not my intent to burden people who may legally possess firearms," Martin said. "However, requiring the filing

of an ATF form for all the parts of a semi-automatic pistol does not seem to me to be too bothersome." 

pamela.lehman@mcall.com 

Twitter @pamelalehman 

610-820-6790 

ABOUT THE WEAPON 

for 10 cartridges. 

From the Lehigh County district attorney office's report on the shooting: 

* Ibrahem's Glock semi-automatic pistol had no serial number on the frame. It had one magazine with a capacity

*Only the lower polymer portion of the gun - without any upper and trigger parts - was purchased from the Spokane

Archery in Washington by a person from Texas. The purchase was legal. 

* The slide/barrel of the gun, known as "uppers," can be bought on the internet and no ATF form is required

because it is not considered to be a firearm. 

* The gun can then be completed by drilling holes to attach the slide/barrel, trigger and other necessary parts.

After assembly, it is a functional semi-automatic pistol. 

Credit: By Peter Hall ; Pamela Lehman - Of The Morning Call - pamela.lehman@mcall.com;Twitter

@pamelalehman;610-820-6790 

Caption: Authorities say Aaron Ibrahem, seen here being taken to court in a 2014 case, had a pistol assembled

from parts legally purchased online even though as a felon he was barred from owning a gun. 

Authorities said Trooper Brian Bird was justified in fatally shooting Aaron Ibrahem, 26, March 28 outside the

Walmart in Lower Macungie Township. 

MORNing call file photo 

FRANK WARNER/MORNING CALL file photo 
 
 


Officials: Man fleeing police fatally shot in New - Associated Press State
Wire: Maine (ME) - August 21, 2018
August 21, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maine (ME)

ROCHEST ER, N.H. (AP) — A man who had previously fled from state police in Maine led New
Hampshire officers on a car chase and died in a shootout, officials said.

Doug las H eath, 38, was wanted on several outstanding warrants, including one for trafficking
Doug las H eath
narcotics and another for fleeing from Maine troopers, New Hampshire Attorney General Gordon
MacDonald said.

Officers spotted Heath's car Monday afternoon and chased him for about 20 minutes before he
crashed. Officials said Heath got out of the car, and there was an exchange of gunfire. Heath died
at the scene, and a gun was found next to his body, MacDonald said.

Deborah Haynes-Whitehead told WMUR-T V she and her husband were in their truck and first
thought they were witnessing a car crash. But then she saw a man with a gun getting out of the
car. She said police told him to drop the gun but he didn't, and shots were fired.

"I was thinking about my grandson and whether I'd see him again," Haynes-Whitehead said. "And
we slouched down in the truck and just sat and waited for someone to tell us to do something. You
know, we were terrified to move the vehicle."

MacDonald said no one else was hurt in the gunfire. He said Rochester police reported last week
that they had credible information Heath was staying in in the town, had several guns and had "no
intention of going to jail."

MacDonald said two Rochester officers and two state troopers were on the scene at the time of
the shooting. It wasn't clear who fired their weapons, or who fired first. All four are on
administrative leave.

Maine State Police said Heath was wanted for a June 11 car chase. Maine State Police spokesman
Steve McCausland said that Heath, who had ties to Sanford, Maine, and Rochester, led police along
route 202 from Sanford to Lebanon, Maine.

Sanford police had tried to pull over Heath's car. McCausland said police knew Heath had an arrest
warrant issued for him out of New Hampshire on a drug charge.

McCausland said that police chased the car for a few miles, but stopped because of concern over
public safety. He said Heath fled on foot and was likely picked up. Police later tracked down
Heath's car to a Lebanon address.

Court records in New Hampshire show Heath had a record dating back to 1997 on charges

including misdemeanor trespassing and criminal threatening.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
The Latest: Man fatally shot in NH was wanted in - Associated Press
State Wire: Maine (ME) - August 21, 2018
August 21, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maine (ME)

ROCHEST ER, N.H. (AP) — T he Latest on a fatal shootout and police chase (all times local):

Maine State Police say a man who died in a car chase and shootout in New Hampshire was wanted
for a June 11 police chase that started in Maine.

Maine State Police spokesman Steve McCausland says Tuesday that 38-year-old Douglas H eath
Doug las H eath,
of Sanford, Maine, had led Sanford and state police on a car chase along route 202 from Sanford
to Lebanon, Maine.

Sanford police had tried to pull over Heath's car. McCausland says police knew Heath had an arrest
warrant issued for him out of New Hampshire for a drug charge.

McCausland says that police chased the car for a few miles but stopped because of concern over
public safety. McCausland says Heath fled on foot and was likely picked up by a vehicle.

Police later tracked down Heath's car to a Lebanon address.

1:15 p.m.

__

7:59 a.m.

Officials say a man who had previously fled from state police in Maine led New Hampshire officers
on a car chase and died in a shootout.

New Hampshire Attorney General Gordon MacDonald says 38-year-old Douglas H eath
wanted on several outstanding warrants, including one for trafficking narcotics and another for
fleeing from Maine troopers.

Doug las Heath was

Officers spotted Heath's car Monday afternoon and chased him for about 20 minutes before he
crashed. Officials say Heath got out of the car, and there was an exchange of gunfire. MacDonald
says Heath died at the scene, and a gun had been found next to his body.

MacDonald says Rochester police reported last week that they had credible information Heath was
staying in the town, had several guns and had "no intention of going to jail."

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Attorney General rules August police shooting - Associated Press State
Wire: Maine (ME) - October 4, 2018
October 4, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maine (ME)

ROCHEST ER, N.H. (AP) — T he Attorney General's office ruled Thursday that law enforcement
officers were justified in shooting dead a New Hampshire man who led them on a brief chase
before crashing his car.

In dramatic dash cam video and footage from a private cellphone of the August shooting,
Doug las H eath
Doug las H eath, 38, of Rochester, can be seen falling out of his crashed vehicle with a semi-
automatic pistol in his hand. It was released at a press conference about a report on whether the
use of force was justified.

Officers in the video repeatedly ask to see Heath's hands before screaming for him to drop his
gun. Heath appears to ignore the commands, firing off two shots in the direction of one officer
and then a third. T hat prompts four officers to fire off 30 shots at him. About 15 shots hit Heath,
who rolls on the ground. A dispatcher can be heard saying "shots fired, one down" before officers
approach Heath, who lays motionless.

T oxicology test later revealed that Heath tested positive for several drugs, including fentanyl and
methamphetamines.

"Based on the facts and circumstances in the case, the attorney general has concluded that
Doug las H eath
Doug las Heath created a dangerous and life-threatening situation, in which he placed in direct
harm numerous people in his vicinity," according to report on the shooting involving State
T roopers Haden Wilber and Nathaniel Goodwin and Rochester Police Detectives Geoff Moore and
Michael Lambert.

"Consequently, it was reasonable for law enforcement faced with an ongoing deadly threat ... to
use deadly force against Douglas H eath
Doug las Heath in order to protect their own lives and those of other
people in the area," the report added.

Officers were trying to stop Heath, who was wanted on three outstanding warrants, including one
for trafficking narcotics and another for fleeing from Maine troopers. T he highway chase reached
upward of 80 miles per hour before Heath missed a turn and crashed into a building.

T here have been three-officer involved shootings this year in New Hampshire.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Officers named in shooting of Rochester man - Foster's Daily Democrat
(Dover, NH) - August 28, 2018
August 28, 2018 | Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, NH) | Kyle Stucker

ROCHEST ER — Authorities on Tuesday released the identities of the Rochester police officers and
New Hampshire State Police troopers involved in the Aug. 20 shooting death of 38-year-old
Doug las H eath.
Doug las H eath

Rochester Detective Geoff Moore and Officer Michael Lambert discharged their firearms during
the incident, as did Troopers Haden Wilber and Nathaniel Goodwin, according to a statement from
Attorney General Gordon J. MacDonald, New Hampshire Police Col. Christopher J. Wagner and
Rochester Police Chief Paul T oussaint.

Heath died as a result of multiple gunshot wounds during the shooting, which occurred after
authorities attempted to bring Heath into custody on four Rochester drug warrants and one
Maine State Police warrant, according to the AG. T he state's chief medical examiner determined
during an autopsy last week that Heath's manner of death was a homicide, which is defined as the
killing of one person by another.

T oussaint said Tuesday the officers involved will be on paid leave for an undetermined period of
time that is dependent on both the ongoing investigation as well as the officers' mental well-being.
T oussaint also said Moore and Lambert are participating in various support programs and peer
support groups, he said.

"We are doing everything we can to provide them with support because it is a tough situation for
any officer to be in," said T oussaint.

T he AG's office has said the exact circumstances surrounding the incident remain actively under
investigation. A report regarding whether the use of deadly force was justified will be released once
the investigation is completed, authorities have said.

Moore, Lambert, Wilber and Goodwin were all placed on paid administrative leave following the
shooting in accordance with standard protocols, according to MacDonald.

Heath, of Colby Street in Gonic, had outstanding warrants related to heroin, cocaine and
buprenorphine-naloxone charges at the time of his death, court records show.

According to the AG, police pursued Heath after spotting him a little after 3 p.m. on Aug. 20.
Around 3:15 p.m. that day, Heath's car crashed at the intersection of Oak Street and Route 125.
Heath exited the vehicle from the passenger side of the car, and there was an exchange of gunfire
between Heath and the two Rochester officers and two State Police troopers, the AG has said.

Heath was struck by gunfire and died at the scene. T he AG has said a gun was found near his body.

A civilian video of the exchange of gunfire was shared across social media platforms following the
incident.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Foster's Daily Democrat, All rights reserved.

 
Autopsy Results in August 20, 2018 Officer- - Targeted News Service
(USA) - August 24, 2018
August 24, 2018 | Targeted News Service (USA) | Press Releases

CONCORD, New Hampshire, Aug. 24 -- New Hampshire Attorney General Gordon J. MacDonald
issued the following news release:

Attorney General Gordon J. MacDonald, New Hampshire Police Colonel Christopher J. Wagner, and
Rochester Police Chief Paul T oussaint announce additional information concerning an officer-
involved shooting incident that took place in Rochester, New Hampshire. During that incident, law
enforcement officers discharged their firearms, and Douglas H eath
wounded. Nobody else was physically injured during the incident.

Doug las Heath (age 38) was fatally

Yesterday, New Hampshire's Chief Medical Examiner Dr. Jennie V. Duval conducted an autopsy on
Mr. Heath. Dr. Duval found that Mr. Heath was shot multiple times, and determined his cause of
death to be multiple gunshot wounds. T he manner of Mr. Heath's death is homicide. As used by
the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner, homicide is defined as the killing of one person by
another.

T he incident is being investigated by the Attorney General's Office in conjunction with the State
Police Major Crime Unit. T he exact circumstances surrounding this incident remain actively under
investigation.

MST RUCK-6420455 MST RUCK

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Targeted News Service. All rights reserved.

 
Attorney General to offer details in August police - Associated Press
State Wire: New Hampshire (NH) - October 4, 2018
October 4, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New Hampshire (NH)

ROCHEST ER, N.H. (AP) — T he Attorney General's office is expected to release more details
regarding a man who died in a shootout with police in New Hampshire after suffering multiple
gunshot wounds.

T hirty-eight-year-old Douglas H eath
Doug las Heath was wanted on several outstanding warrants, including one
for trafficking narcotics and another for fleeing from Maine troopers. Authorities say he led them
on a chase before he crashed in Rochester in August. T hey say when Heath got out of his car,
there were an exchange of gunfire and he died at the scene. A gun was found next to him. No one
else was hurt.

On T hursday, the Attorney General's office will release police and private citizen video recordings of
the armed encounter.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Autopsy shows Maine fugitive died of multiple - New Hampshire Union
Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) - August 25,
2018 - page 3
August 25, 2018 | New Hampshire Union Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) | TODD
FEATHERS New Hampshire Union Leader | Page 3

Rochester: Douglas H eath
Street and Route 125.

Doug las H eath, 38, died Monday night in a shootout with local and state police at Oak

ROCHEST ER -- Douglas H eath
multiple gunshot wounds, according to the autopsy.

Doug las H eath, 38, the Maine man killed by police on Monday, died as a result of

Senior Assistant Attorney General Peter Hinckley declined to release additional details about the
shooting, only that it remains under investigation.

Police had been searching for Heath since April, after he failed to appear in court on drug charges.
After evading Maine State Police in a high-speed chase in June, Heath again tried to evade police
Monday night when they attempted to stop him. After a 20-minute car chase, Heath’s escape
ended in a crash at Oak Street and Route 125.

According to police, Heath exited his car through the passenger-side door and exchanged gunfire
with police before being fatally wounded.

Both Rochester police and state troopers were involved in the shooting, but none were injured.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Union Leader Corp.

 
Autopsy: Man in police shootout wounded multiple - Associated Press
State Wire: Maine (ME) - August 24, 2018
August 24, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maine (ME)

ROCHEST ER, N.H. (AP) — An autopsy shows that a man who died in a shootout with police in New
Hampshire suffered multiple gunshot wounds.

Doug las Heath was wanted on several outstanding warrants, including one
T hirty-eight-year-old Douglas H eath
for trafficking narcotics and another for fleeing from Maine troopers. Authorities say he led them
on a chase before he crashed in Rochester on Monday. T hey said when Heath got out of his car,
there were an exchange of gunfire and he died at the scene. A gun was found next to him. No one
else was hurt.

T he attorney general's office said two Rochester officers and two state troopers were on the
scene at the time of the shooting. All four are on administrative leave.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
This time, fatal hail of gunfire ends chase - New Hampshire Union
Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) - August 22,
2018 - page 1
August 22, 2018 | New Hampshire Union Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) | TODD
FEATHERS New Hampshire Union Leader | Page 1

A long criminal history: Before Monday night’s pursuit, Douglas H eath
Police on June 11.

Doug las Heath had eluded Maine State

ROCHEST ER -- Before he was killed in a gunfight with police Monday night, Douglas H eath
been on the run for nearly four months.

Doug las Heath had

After Rochester police arrested him for possession of heroin, Suboxone, and cocaine on April 13,
Heath appeared for a bail hearing at Strafford County Superior Court. He spoke with the clerk and
signed documents, including a voluntary agreement to waive extradition from Maine, where he
lived,

But then Heath, a 38-year-old father of three who had addresses listed in New Hampshire and
Maine, left the courthouse before his hearing and didn’t return, according to court records.

T he court issued a warrant for his arrest, and on June 11 police in Sanford, Maine, spotted Heath
driving a car and attempted to stop him, according to Maine State Police spokesman Stephen
McCausland. Heath fled on Route 202 toward Lebanon, Maine, and after several miles officers
gave up the chase.

T hey tracked his car to a home on Second Street in Lebanon and learned that Heath had fled the
home on foot and likely been picked up by another person, McCausland said.

On Monday in Rochester, Heath again tried to evade police when they attempted to stop him.
After a 20-minute car chase, his escape ended in a crash at Oak Street and Route 125.

Heath got out of the vehicle through the passenger side and exchanged gunfire with Rochester
officers and state police troopers, Attorney General Gordon MacDonald said. No police were
injured, but Heath was killed.

An autopsy is scheduled for T hursday. Senior Assistant Attorney General Peter Hinckley said the
incident remains under investigation.

Heath had a previous criminal history in Strafford County which included drug, firearm, and
domestic violence charges. At times, it appeared Heath was on a path to recovery, according to
court records, but he struggled with drug use.

In 2006, while on probation for an earlier drug conviction, police caught Heath with cocaine, crack

cocaine, and two revolvers. He was sentenced to 38 months in prison and three years supervised
release.

His probation was terminated early, though, after his probation officer determined that he had
maintained sobriety and “made a favorable transition to the community and appears to be
maintaining a law-abiding lifestyle.”

In 2016, Rochester police arrested Heath for choking a woman in a domestic dispute but the case
did not go to trial because the victim never appeared.

tfeathers@unionleader.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, Union Leader Corp.

 
Man killed in New Hampshire police shootout had - Kennebec Journal
(Augusta, ME) - August 21, 2018
August 21, 2018 | Kennebec Journal (Augusta, ME) | Matt Byrne

A man killed in a shootout with police in Rochester, New Hampshire, on Monday had led Maine
police on a brief chase in York County in June, authorities said.

Officers tried to stop Douglas H eath
wanted in New Hampshire on a drug charge, Maine State Police said.

Doug las H eath, 38, in Sanford on June 11 because they knew he was

But instead of stopping, Heath fled in his vehicle, leading police on chase that lasted a couple of
miles on Route 202. T he pursuit ended in Lebanon when officers stopped chasing him to minimize
the risk to the public, and because they knew the identity of the driver, police said.

Later that day, police tracked the car to a home on Second Street in Lebanon where Heath was
living at the time. Officers later learned that Heath fled Lebanon on foot and was likely picked up by
a vehicle and left the area.

Heath, 38, was killed in a police shootout around 3:15 p.m. Monday at the intersection of Oak
Street and Route 125 in Rochester.

News Center Maine (WCSH/WLBZ) said Rochester police obtained "credible information" earlier
this month that Heath had been living in Rochester and had three firearms. Information given to
police indicated that Heath had no intention of going to jail.

On Monday, Heath was pursued by officers for about 20 minutes before crashing his vehicle. He
got out of the passenger side of the vehicle and exchanged gunfire with officers before he was
fatally shot. T he New Hampshire Attorney General's Office said a gun was found near Heath's
body.

Deborah Haynes-Whitehead told WMUR-T V that she and her husband were in their truck and first
thought they were witnessing a car crash. But then she saw a man with a gun getting out of the
car. She said police told him to drop the gun but he didn't, and shots were fired, T he Associated
Press reported.

"I was thinking about my grandson and whether I'd see him again," Haynes-Whitehead said. "And
we slouched down in the truck and just sat and waited for someone to tell us to do something. You
know, we were terrified to move the vehicle."

New Hampshire Attorney General Gordon MacDonald said two Rochester police officers and two
state troopers were on the scene at the time of the shooting. It wasn't clear who fired their
weapons, or who fired first, the AP reported. All four are on administrative leave.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.

 
Disclosure of Officers' Names From August 20, 2018 - Targeted News
Service (USA) - August 28, 2018
August 28, 2018 | Targeted News Service (USA) | Press Releases

CONCORD, New Hampshire, Aug. 28 -- New Hampshire Attorney General Gordon J. MacDonald
issued the following news release:

Attorney General Gordon J. MacDonald, New Hampshire Police Colonel Christopher J. Wagner, and
Rochester Police Chief Paul T oussaint announce the names of the law enforcement officers
involved in the shooting incident on August 20, 2018, in Rochester, New Hampshire that resulted in
the death of Douglas H eath

Doug las Heath (age 38).

T he officers who discharged their firearms during the incident were New Hampshire State Police
T roopers Haden Wilber and Nathaniel Goodwin, and Detective Geoff Moore and Officer Michael
Lambert of the Rochester Police Department.

T he exact circumstances surrounding this incident remain actively under investigation. A report
regarding whether the use of force was justified will be released once the investigation is
completed.

MST RUCK-6423633 MST RUCK

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Targeted News Service. All rights reserved.

 
AG: Deadly force justified in Rochester police- - New Hampshire Union
Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) - October 5,
2018 - page 3
October 5, 2018 | New Hampshire Union Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) |
KIMBERLEY HAAS Union Leader Correspondent | Page 3

Findings: Officials presented results of investigation into the August incident that led to the death
Doug las H eath.
of Douglas H eath

ROCHEST ER -- Officials at the Attorney General’s Office have concluded police used reasonable
force when they shot and killed a man after a high-speed chase in Rochester this summer.

Doug las H eath
Doug las H eath, 38, was shot up to 15 times after he pulled a stolen semiautomatic pistol on
police and began firing the afternoon of Aug. 20.On Thursday afternoon, Senior Assistant Attorney
General Peter Hinckley went through an hour-long presentation detailing the results of their
investigation during a press briefing at Rochester City Hall. He was joined by Attorney General
Gordon MacDonald, State Police Col. Christopher Wagner, Rochester Police Chief Paul T oussaint
and state troopers.Hinckley released the 43-page report he compiled and shared three videos
which captured the incident. Two were from Rochester police vehicle cameras and one was taken
by a private citizen.T he report says Rochester police initially learned about Heath and the two
warrants out for his arrest on Aug. 15. Detective Geoff Moore wrote an officer safety briefing
form to notify fellow officers.T he form said Heath may be in possession of three firearms and “he
has no intention of going to jail.”On Aug. 18, Moore spotted Heath get into a white Cadillac SUV in
Rochester and police officers tried to stop him, but according to the report, he sped away.Moore
passed Heath driving the same SUV two days later on Aug. 20 just before 3 p.m. Moore radioed
for assistance from Rochester police and state police.Officers were warned Heath may be
armed.T rooper Haden Wilber was one of the state police officers who responded to Moore’s call
for backup. Wilber was familiar with Heath’s name and had reason to believe he frequently was at
the Riviera Motel located on Route 125 in Rochester, the report says.When Wilber pulled into the
parking lot of the motel Heath was there in his vehicle. Heath took off and a police pursuit
began.Heath crashed two miles north at the Oak Street intersection. Hinckley said they
determined he was traveling about 70 miles an hour seconds before he lost control of the
SUV.“T he posted speed limit for this area is 35 miles per hour,” Hinckley said Thursday as he
showed media and members of the public in attendance of the briefing an aerial photo taken by
state police after the shooting.Hinckley said Wilber, Rochester Police Officer Michael Lambert and
T rooper Nathaniel Goodwin arrived at the crash scene seconds after the crash. T here were several
private citizens who were stopped at the intersection.“Mr. Heath left the SUV through the front
passenger door and he fell to the ground. Mr. Heath held in his left hand a loaded semiautomatic
pistol. Within seconds of Mr. Heath getting out of that crashed SUV, and despite commands from
Officer Lambert to drop his weapon, Mr. Heath pulled back on the slide of the pistol that he held,”
Hinckley said.Heath fired a shot. When Heath fired a second time two seconds later, his pistol was
pointed in the direction of Lambert, Goodwin and at least one private citizen, which can be seen on
two of the videos.When a third shot hit the roof of a pickup truck being driven by a bystander,

Lambert, Goodwin and Wilber fired their weapons at Heath.Moore also fired at Heath after seeing
him shooting in his direction when he arrived on scene.A total of 30 shots were fired, according to
the report.Heath was struck at close range when he shot himself in the face while rolling on the
ground. It took seconds to minutes for him to die, Hinckley said.At the time of his death, Heath
had fentanyl, amphetamine and methamphetamine in his system, Hinckley said.While watching the
police and cellphone videos, 20-year-old Skyeann Sullivan of Rochester began to cry. She said after
the briefing Heath took care of her and her siblings before he got involved in drugs and she
considered him her father.“I just want everybody to realize that’s what drugs do to you. He wasn’t
like that beforehand. And even on drugs, he was still a nice person. He just didn’t know what to do
with himself anymore,” Sullivan said.Sullivan said she appeared at the briefing because she wanted
to stand up for Heath and her family while getting closure through hearing from officials.Wagner
and T oussaint both offered Sullivan their condolences before the briefing ended.“On behalf of the
Rochester Police Department, we offer our sincere condolences,” T oussaint said. “In particular, we
admire your strength.”

Copyrig ht, 2018, Union Leader Corp.

 
Man killed in gunfire with police faced drug - Foster's Daily Democrat
(Dover, NH) - August 21, 2018
August 21, 2018 | Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, NH) | Kyle Stucker

ROCHEST ER — Court records show Rochester police had four active drug warrants out for
Doug las H eath
Doug las Heath at the time he was killed in Monday's officer-involved shooting, and the state
attorney general's office said Tuesday a civilian video of the shooting only shows a portion of the
events that transpired.

Heath, 38, of Colby Street in the Rochester neighborhood of Gonic, died Monday afternoon after
he was struck during an exchange of gunfire with police near the intersection of Oak Street and
Gonic Road (Route 125) in Gonic, authorities have said.

T he incident began after police attempted to take Heath into custody on what court records show
to be four Rochester warrants and one Maine State Police warrant.

T he Rochester warrants, which stem from an April traffic stop, were for a Class A felony charge for
possession of 146 grams of heroin with intent to distribute and one Class B felony count each of
possession of heroin, cocaine, and buprenorphine-naloxone, according to court records.

T he Maine warrant is for the charge of eluding a police officer that stems from an attempted
traffic stop and subsequent car chase that occurred along Route 202 from Sanford to Lebanon on
June 11, according to Maine State Police.

T he investigation into Monday afternoon's officer-involved shooting is ongoing, and Heath's
autopsy is still scheduled for T hursday, the attorney general's office said T uesday.

An unauthenticated civilian video of the shooting is circulating on social media. T he 23-second
video, recorded from inside a civilian's stopped motor vehicle, appears to show Heath climb out his
car, roll on the ground and discharge a firearm in the direction of police officers who are out of
frame. T he video then appears to show Heath being hit by multiple bullets fired by the out-of-
frame police officers. T he video ends shortly after the gunfire ceases.

Attorney General Gordon J. MacDonald said during a press conference Monday night that the
video, along with Rochester police cruiser video, are under investigation. He said at the time that it
was unknown whether Heath or an officer fired first, or which officers discharged their weapons.

A gun was found near Heath's body after the shooting, MacDonald said.

Senior Assistant Attorney General Peter Hinckley said Tuesday morning that the civilian video
shows only a small portion of Monday's events. He said his office's investigation will include
reviewing all of the video evidence, interviewing police and civilian witnesses, and reviewing all other
evidence related to the incident.

"We're not focused on a single portion of the encounter, but the entirety of the encounter,
including all that transpired before then and all that transpires after then that wasn't captured on
the (civilian) video," Hinckley said. "Even though video or any (other) recorded evidence can be an
important aspect of a case, it's certainly not the entirety of the case."

As is standard protocol, the unnamed Rochester officers and state troopers have been placed on
administrative leave in conjunction with the state's investigation into the officer-involved shooting.
None of the officers were injured during Monday's incident, nor were any members of the public,
according to MacDonald.

State police vehicles do not have video equipment, and neither Rochester nor state troopers have
body cameras, according to MacDonald.

Monday's officer-involved shooting occurred after Heath crashed his car near Oak Street and
Gonic Road around 3:15 p.m. while attempting to flee from the Rochester police officers and New
Hampshire state troopers who were looking to arrest him on the five warrants, MacDonald has
said.

A police pursuit began after authorities reportedly spotted Heath's car around 3 p.m. Monday.
Heath's car was sighted Monday six days after Rochester police received information that Heath
was staying at a location within city limits, may have been in possession of three firearms, and had
"no intention of going to jail," according to MacDonald.

Rochester police charged Heath with their four drug charges after allegedly observing Heath
driving without his lights on along Chestnut Street and River Street around 8:21 p.m. April 13,
according to an affidavit filed in Strafford County Superior Court.

T he affidavit states that following the traffic stop, which occurred in a parking lot on River Street,
Rochester officer William Robinson allegedly observed Heath making "furtive movements near the
center console of his vehicle." After placing Heath under arrest for an electronic bench warrant
related to a different matter, Robinson noticed a small blue bag on the center console that was
consistent with the size and type used for packaging drugs, according to the affidavit.

A subsequent search of Heath's pockets resulted in the discovery of a small bag of white powder,
to which Heath said, "I forgot that was there, it is just a little coke," according to the affidavit.

A narcotics detection K-9 sniff search and an officer search of the vehicle later allegedly found the
146 grams worth of bagged heroin, a syringe containing heroin, 16 doses of buprenorphine-
naloxone and $461 in cash, according to the affidavit.

T he state has nolle prossed, or dropped, Heath's Rochester charges due to his death Monday.

In reference to the Maine State Police warrant, state police spokesman Steve McCausland said the
June 11 chase started in Sanford when Sanford police attempted to stop Heath's car because they
knew about Rochester's active drug warrants. McCausland said Sanford and state police ended the
chase after a couple of miles due to public safety concerns and the fact that officers had already

identified Heath as the driver.

McCausland said Heath's vehicle was later located at a residence at which Heath was known to
reside on Lebanon's Second Street. McCausland said Heath wasn't there at the time, though,
because he fled the residence on foot and was likely picked up by a vehicle that transported him
out of the area.

A review of Heath's New Hampshire court records shows he was convicted in Rochester District
Court in 2015 on two counts of simple assault, as well as a subsequent 2017 probation violation
conviction for violating the terms of his 12-month suspended sentence.

Heath's court records also show a conviction for theft by deception (criminal liability for conduct of
another) in Rochester District Court in 2017, a misdemeanor willful-concealment conviction in
Rochester District Court in 2013, and a misdemeanor driving-after-suspension conviction in
Portsmouth District Court in 2013.

Heath had faced a felony second-degree assault charge in Strafford County Superior Court in
2016, although the charge and subsequent 2017 indictment were ultimately dropped in November.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Foster's Daily Democrat, All rights reserved.

 
Officers ID’d in Rochester police-involved - New Hampshire Union
Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) - August 29,
2018 - page 2
August 29, 2018 | New Hampshire Union Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) | TODD
FEATHERS New Hampshire Union Leader | Page 2

Attorney General: Four officers fired their weapons while exchanging gunfire with a Maine man on
the run.

ROCHEST ER -- T he Attorney General’s office on Tuesday identified the two state police troopers
Doug las H eath.T he
and two Rochester police officers involved last week in the fatal shooting of Douglas H eath
38-year-old Maine man had been on the run from police since April, when he failed to attend a
court hearing on several judge charges and a warrant was issued for his arrest.On Aug. 20, police
attempted to stop Heath, who led them on a 20-minute, high speed chase that ended when he
crashed at the intersection of Oak Street and Route 125.According to police, Heath exited the car
through the passenger side door and exchanged gunfire with police.State police troopers Haden
Wilber and Nathaniel Goodwin and Rochester police officers Geoff Moore and Michael Lambert all
fired their weapons, according to a statement from Senior Assistant Attorney General Peter
Hinckley.T he chief medical examiner had previously found that Heath was struck by multiple
bullets. No one else was injured in the firefight.Hinckley said he will release a report on whether the
use of force was justified at the conclusion of his office’s investigation.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Union Leader Corp.

 
Suspect killed in police-involved shooting in N.H - Boston Herald (MA) -
August 21, 2018 - page 22
August 21, 2018 | Boston Herald (MA) | Volume 36 | Issue 233 | Page 22

A wanted suspect was killed in a police-involved shooting in Rochester, N.H., the New Hampshire
attorney general told reporters last night.

Doug las H eath, 38, was shot and killed about 3:15 p.m., Attorney General Gordon MacDonald
Doug las H eath
said. WMUR reported that MacDonald said officers were present but said it was unclear who fired
the fatal shot or shots.

A witness told the T V station that she and her husband saw a man holding a gun get out of a
vehicle. Police told the man to drop the gun, and when he didn’t, police shot the man.

— Herald staff

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Boston Herald

 
Body camera debate rolls on - Concord Monitor (NH) - September 16,
2018 - page 1
September 16, 2018 | Concord Monitor (NH) | CAITLIN ANDREWS | Page 1

Monitor staff

T he video shows a man on the ground, rolling away from his vehicle as police sirens blare in the
background.

Multiple gunshots ring out as two Rochester police officers and two state troopers open fire, killing
Doug las H eath.
Doug las H eath

T he 23-second video that spread rapidly online gave the public a glimpse of Heath’s fatal
encounter with police on Aug. 21 after a chase ended when Heath’s car crashed near Oak Street
and Gonic Road in Rochester. But the clip didn’t come from the police officers at the scene.
Instead, it came from a witness who filmed it from inside a nearby vehicle.

T he Attorney General’s office has said the video is being reviewed as part of its investigation and
may not tell the whole story. But unless the Rochester police cruiser’s in-car cameras and
microphones captured the incident – and the state releases the material – it may be all the public
gets to see of New Hampshire’s most recent police-involved shooting.

Video technology has become so ubiquitous that virtually everyone with a cellphone is equipped
with a video camera. But many police departments in New Hampshire – including the State Police –
are not equipped with cameras, either on officer’s bodies or in their police cruisers.

T he Rochester police cruisers are equipped with video cameras and microphones, but the footage
they captured has not been released while the Attorney General’s office investigates the shooting.
Rochester police officers don’t use body cameras.

After years of unsuccessful legislative attempts to get State Police to use cameras, Col. Chris
Wagner has thrown his support behind getting cameras into state police vehicles, but not having
troopers wear body cameras.

“I do think they bring tremendous value. T hey offer a level of transparency, and we have a
responsibility in serving the public’s interest,” Wagner said. “... I would support, specifically, getting
in-car cameras.”

His reasons are two-fold. One is cost: Wagner said his department spent the better part of this
year studying the cost of implementing either body or cruiser cameras. T o get a program up and
running would cost close to $2 million, he said, and keeping it going would cost $1 million annually.

T he Monitor asked for any documents related to the study of camera use, but has received none

so far. A Department of Safety lawyer said it could take up to 30 days to determine which
documents could be publicly released.

Wagner views cruiser cameras as being a better value, saying they are almost always attached to
the trooper using the vehicle, can record audio and video in the front and back of the vehicle and
offer a wider view of a situation.

He also said cruiser cameras are more reliable; they stay in one spot, and unlike body cameras, are
unlikely to be obscured by body parts or clothing or fall off.

Still, Wagner wouldn’t say if he would ask for funding for the cameras in the upcoming two-year
state budget cycle.

Wagner said waiting to implement the technology isn’t a bad thing.

“Not understanding (body cameras) is the biggest mistake agencies make,” he said. “T hey feel
obligated, listening to the national conversation, to get the technology without understanding it;
that could be more detrimental to the department.”

T he full implication of the technology “still isn’t understood,” Wagner continued. “T here’s this idea
that they are the end-all, be-all, but there are still limitations. T he technology isn’t by itself going to
solve all our problems.”

Last year, Wagner said he could not comment on whether body cameras help prove his officers’
actions are justified in instances where they use deadly force. Past efforts

Of the six New England states, only New Hampshire and Rhode Island state police do not currently
use cameras in any form.

Massachusetts, Connecticut and Vermont have started equipping their state police forces with
body cameras this summer.

Vermont recently outfitted its Tactical Services Unit with cameras and is “committed to pursuing
body cameras for every trooper in the field,” said Vermont State Police’s public information officer
Adam Silverman. T he department has had cameras in its cruisers and microphones for its troopers
for “many years,” and engaged in a pilot program with body cameras two years ago.

Maine does not have body cameras in their state police forces but does have cameras in its
cruisers, said Maine state police spokesman Stephen McCausland.

New Hampshire State police were given equipment to run a pilot program with three body
cameras on loan from Taser International in 2015. But, the program never got off the ground and
the cameras were returned unused as police cited a lack of framework for their use and an
unresolved discussion about privacy and storage concerns.

T he state has since developed guidelines around body camera use and how long footage is
expected to be stored before it can be overwritten or deleted. But when it comes to implementing

the equipment, Rep. Renny Cushing, D-Hampton, said, “In the classic New Hampshire way, there’s
not any money that’s been provided for it.”

Cushing sponsored House Bill 1730 this past legislative session, which would have established the
Public Safety Enhancement Fund by creating “prestige” vanity plates out of any plate with four
digits or less. T he plates would cost $40 and the money would go into a fund managed by the
state’s Department of Justice. Police departments would be able to apply for grants to get body
cameras.

T he bill was killed in early February after the House’s Criminal Justice and Public Safety Committee
found the majority of the plates would come from the elderly or veterans, and that the money
would not be enough to support the program.

Cushing said he plans to try again next session.

“People recognize it as a valuable tool that protects police and seems to put everyone on their
best behavior,” he said. “People aren’t willing to pay the public dollars for it.”

Cushing said he wants to incentivize police departments to get body cameras and thinks municipal
insurers should, too, saying investing in body cameras creates fewer lawsuits and increases public
satisfaction with police departments.

“It’s an interesting issue because it transcends. It doesn’t become a partisan issue,” he said. “Public
safety is one of those few areas where there isn’t a partisan divide.”

If departments pushed for cameras, Cushing was confident the Legislature would be “responsive”
to finding a way to provide them.

“If the agency itself is interested, it’s their responsibility to step up and ask,” he said.

As of two years ago, 10 police departments in the state had body cameras. Weare and Dunbarton
have had cameras for some time.

A few departments have made strides towards adding the technology this year: Portsmouth is
mulling adding cameras, Hanover police added the technology this summer, and Claremont police
said they would bring cameras online this fall. A national debate

T he effect body cameras have on policing is still being studied.

An October study by T he Lab @ DC, an extension of the District of Columbia Mayor Muriel
Bowsers administration, found the use of body cameras did not result in large-scale shifts in police
behavior or reductions in the use of force or complaints.

Using a sample size of 2,224 Metropolitan Police Department officers in Washington, D.C. – some
equipped with cameras, some not – they found over the course of 18 months that while the
presence of body cameras may have increased reports of use of force from police officers, the
amount of use of force remains the same. Cameras also had no impact on general police activity,

such as writing tickets, making arrests and responding to calls, nor on the outcomes of cases
prosecuted.

T he study also notes other police officers not equipped with body cameras may alter their
behavior in the presence of another officer with a camera, a factor that would be hard to measure
when looking at the control group.

“Our experiment suggests that we should recalibrate our expectations of BWCs (body-worn
cameras),” the study states. “Law enforcement agencies … considering adopting BWCs should not
expect dramatic reductions in use of force or complaints, or other large-scale shifts in police
behavior, solely from the deployment of this technology.”

And whether cameras affect public perception and trust of police is also up for debate, according
to an August 2017 study by the Urban Institute, a nonprofit research organization that looks at
public policy.

T he study followed 60 police officers in an “economically and socially diverse city” in the
southwestern United States – some of whom were equipped with cameras and told to follow a
script when interacting with the public, others equipped with cameras with no script, and some with
no cameras – and found body cameras do affect the perceptions of community members who
interact with the police, “but those effects are largely dictated by the officers’ behavior.”

T hey also found police who had to tell members of the public they were being recorded were more
likely to turn their cameras on, while officers responding to more calls for service activated them
less often.

“T hese findings also suggest that BWCs are not a simple ‘plug-and-play’ policy solution; significant
variations across officers and circumstances affect the potential benefits of BWCs,” the study
concludes.

Devon Chaffee, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of New Hampshire, said
body cameras specifically are viewed as possible tools for accountability and transparency.

But that’s only if a state has use and privacy protection guidelines accompanying them. T he ACLU-
NH was part of the effort to draft such measures in 2016.

“Body cameras are not going to improve community relations if the public doesn’t have confidence
that footage is accurate,” she said.(Material from the Associated Press was used in this report.
Caitlin Andrews can be reached at 369-3309, candrews@cmonitor.com or on T witter at
@ActualCAndrews.)

Copyrig ht, 2018, Concord Monitor

 
AG: Shooting of Rochester man justified - Foster's Daily Democrat
(Dover, NH) - October 4, 2018
October 4, 2018 | Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, NH) | Kyle Stucker

ROCHEST ER — City police officers and New Hampshire state troopers were legally justified in their
use of deadly force against Douglas H eath
Doug las Heath in Gonic on Aug. 20, state Attorney General Gordon J.
MacDonald announced T hursday.

MacDonald and Senior Assistant Attorney General Peter Hinckley said authorities were justified
because Heath, 38, placed officers and private citizens in the immediate area in danger when he
ignored repeated police orders to drop his pistol, fired multiple rounds in their direction and readied
to fire additional shots.

"It was reasonable for each of them to believe that Mr. Heath would continue to use deadly force
and continue to place the lives of the officers and the private citizens in the area in danger," said
Hinckley. "It was reasonable for the officers to use their own deadly force in order to stop Mr.
Heath."

T he AG's office released its full 43-page final report on the officer-involved shooting during a press
conference Thursday afternoon at Rochester City Hall.

Now that the lengthy investigation has concluded, Hinckley said the state will not pursue criminal
charges against the four law enforcement officers involved because they acted in defense of
private citizens and themselves. T hose officers are Rochester Officer Michael Lambert, T rooper
Haden Wilber, Trooper Nathaniel Goodwin and Rochester Detective Geoff Moore.

T he shooting occurred around 3:15 p.m. Aug. 20, seconds after Heath crashed his SUV at the
corner of Route 125 and Oak Street while trying to avoid arrest on multiple drug warrants, Hinckley
outlined T hursday. According to Hinckley, the crash occurred because Heath failed to negotiate
the turn onto Oak Street during a "reckless" and "dangerous" two-mile high-speed chase.

Skyeann Sullivan, 20, Heath's daughter and a Rochester resident, attended Thursday's press
conference alone, doing so, she said, because she wanted to get closure. T earfully, Sullivan told
reporters she accepts the results of the investigation because her dad shot first, even though she
said she's disappointed police didn't use nonlethal tasers to get him to drop his gun.

"T hey did what they had to, and I can see that," said Sullivan. "I understand my dad's side, and I
understand their side, and that's just how the world goes I guess."

One of the most emotional parts of the press conference for Sullivan came as Hinckley broke
down in detail two police videos that showed the high-speed pursuit and shooting, as well as a
civilian video of the shooting. T hose videos, which are graphic, are posted on the state
Department of Justice website along with the AG's final report.

Sullivan said the man shown on those videos is nothing like the kind and caring person who helped
her in numerous ways while she completed chemotherapy. She said she believes the drugs Heath
had in his system at the time of the shooting — confirmed by state testing to be fentanyl,
amphetamine and methamphetamine — made him act in an uncharacteristically violent way.

"He wasn't like that beforehand and even on drugs he was still a nice person," she said. "He just
didn't know what to do with himself anymore. Drugs took over. T hat wasn't my dad."

According to the state's investigation, Heath fired a total of four shots, while Lambert, Wilber,
Goodwin and Moore collectively discharged 30 shots and struck Heath as many as 15 times.

After Heath climbed out of the passenger side window of his crashed vehicle, he chambered a
round within his semi-automatic pistol as officers ordered him to show them his hands and drop
the weapon, the videos showed T hursday. Heath then fired two shots about two seconds apart
toward Lambert, Goodwin and a civilian vehicle that was stopped alongside the officers 40-50 feet
away from Heath. One of the rounds struck that civilian vehicle, a gray pickup truck, and narrowly
missed the driver, Hinckley said.

Officers didn't fire until Heath again pointed the gun in their direction, Hinckley said. Police fired
almost instantaneously as Heath discharged a third round. T he video shows Heath rolling as police
gunfire strikes him, during which Heath's fourth and final shot can be seen discharging toward and
striking the left side of his own head, Hinckley said.

Between the pursuit and shooting, over a dozen citizen witnesses were interviewed as a part of the
investigation, Hinckley said. All of the witnesses said Heath fired multiple shots toward police and
civilians before law enforcement shot at Heath, Hinckley said.

"T he entirety of the encounter from Mr. Heath and law enforcement (from the crash to the final
shot) is about 15 seconds," he said. "T his was an incredibly fast-moving, dangerous and volatile
event, and decisions had to be made, and were made, in less than a second."

During Thursday's press conference, State Police Col. Christopher Wagner and Rochester Police
Chief Paul T oussaint praised the officers' and troopers' quick actions to protect innocent lives
despite challenging conditions. T hey said the officers and troopers acted heroically and
courageously while placing themselves in peril.

Wagner also said the "integrity" of the investigators is "without compromise." He said
investigators have worked tirelessly over the past two months to reach Thursday's conclusions.

Wagner and T oussaint said their departments want to express their sincere condolences to
Heath's family.

"Mr. Heath had family, and it a tragic situation when a life is lost," said T oussaint, looking directly at
Sullivan while telling her that he admires her strength for coming T hursday. "Mr. Heath's family
members, regardless of the conclusion of this investigation, did not ask for any of this and they are
suffering."

Copyrig ht © 2018 Foster's Daily Democrat, All rights reserved.

 
Report coming in Rochester officer-involved - Foster's Daily Democrat
(Dover, NH) - October 3, 2018
October 3, 2018 | Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, NH) | Kyle Stucker

ROCHEST ER — T he state attorney general's office will release Thursday its final report on the
fatal officer-involved shooting that occurred in Gonic on Aug. 20.

Senior Assistant Attorney General Peter Hinckley will present findings during a press briefing in
Rochester City Hall's City Council Chambers at 1 p.m. T hursday, the AG's office announced
Wednesday.

Doug las H eath
Doug las H eath, 38, of Colby Street in Gonic, was fatally shot on Aug. 20 following a police pursuit
that ended in a crash at the intersection of Oak Street and Route 125, the AG's office has said.

T he AG has said Heath exited the vehicle from the passenger side of the car, after which there was
an exchange of gunfire between Heath and the two Rochester officers and two State Police
troopers. Heath was struck by gunfire and died at the scene. T he AG has said a gun was found
near his body.

Heath was wanted on multiple drug charges at the time of his death, according to court records.

T he officers and troopers involved were placed on paid administrative leave in conjunction with the
investigation.

T hursday's press briefing will include police and private citizen video recordings of the incident,
according to the AG's office. Copies of the AG's final report and the video recordings will then be
available on the New Hampshire Department of Justice website at doj.nh.gov.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Foster's Daily Democrat, All rights reserved.

 

UPDATED: 1 dead in officer-involved shooting in - World, The (Coos Bay,
OR) - June 23, 2018
June 23, 2018 | World, The (Coos Bay, OR) | Amanda Linares

COOS BAY — A Coos Bay resident armed with a rifle was shot dead Saturday morning at
approximately 6:44 a.m. by officers near a residence located at 475 Johnson Ave., according to a
press release from Coos County District Attorney Paul Frasier.

Early Saturday, Coos Bay police had attempted on two separate occasions to arrest Eric Sweet
Eric Sweet
for a felony attempting to elude a police officer. In both incidents, pursuits were discontinued for
safety reasons.

Officers arrived at Sweet's home on Johnson Avenue to find his car parked several feet from the
curb and his driver's door open. Sweet later exited his home with a rifle and was ordered by police
to drop his weapon.

According to the press release, Sweet pointed the rifle toward one of the police officers at the
scene resulting in all three officers opening fire. Shots were fired from an officer with the Coos Bay
Police Department, an officer from the Confederated Tribal Police and a trooper from the Oregon
State Police. Sweet was pronounced dead at the scene from his wounds.

"I am not releasing the names of the officers at this time," said Frasier. "All three officers have
been placed on paid administrative leave pending the results of this investigation."

Witnesses said they heard what sounded like fireworks and then a man's voice yelling, "Get the (f---
) out!" Soon after, a neighbor said she heard about three gun shots a pause and then two more
shots.

Frasier has recused the Coos Bay Police Department, the Confederated Tribal Police and the
Oregon State Police from the investigation, following the Coos County Deadly Force Policy. In
addition, the North Bend Police Department has also been recused, for being involved in the
attempt to arrest Sweet earlier in the day. NBPD was not actually involved in the shooting.

"T o assist in the investigation I have asked for and received help from the Douglas County Major
Crimes T eam," said Frasier. "I have also asked for assistance from the Eugene Police Department
to assist in the forensic examination of the scene."

Officers from the Coos County Sheriff's Office, Bandon Police, Myrtle Point Police, Coos County
Medical Examiner's Office and the District Attorney's Office have been enlisted for assistance. T he
Coos County Sheriff's Office will be leading the investigation and have asked anyone with
information related to this case to contact deputies.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Southwestern Oreg on Publishing  Co., Inc.

 

Officers identified in Coos Bay shooting - World, The (Coos Bay, OR) -
June 25, 2018
June 25, 2018 | World, The (Coos Bay, OR) | Tim Epperson

COOS BAY — Coos County District Attorney Paul Frasier held a press conference on Monday to
release the names of the officers involved in a fatal shooting Saturday morning in Coos Bay.

T he officers are:

Coos Bay Police Officer Dan Henthorn. Henthorn was originally hired by the Coos County Sheriff's
Office in 2006. In 2009, he was hired by the Coquille Police Department and in 2016, he was hired
by the Coos Bay Police Department.

Officer Doug Laird of the Confederated Coos, Lower Umpqua and Siuslaw Tribal Police
Department. Laird was hired, initially by the Coquille Police Department in 1993. In 1994, he was
hired by the North Bend Police Department. In 1997, Laird was hired by a police department in
another state. In 2013, Laird returned to Coos County and was hired by the Coos County Sheriff's
Office. In February 2015, Laird was hired by the Confederated Tribal Police.

Oregon State Trooper Kurtis Matthews was hired by the State Police in 2016.

Frasier said the officers are on paid administrative leave pending a review of the shooting by
Frasier. T he Douglas County Sheriff's Office was invited to handle the investigation into the officer-
involved shooting death of Eric Sweet
North Bend. Both pursuits were called off for safety reasons, Frasier said.

Eric Sweet , following two high-speed pursuits through Coos Bay and

Officers arrived at Sweet's home at 475 Johnson Ave. later that morning to find his car parked
several feet from the curb with the driver's door open. Sweet later exited the house with a rifle and
was ordered to drop his weapon by officers at the scene.

According to Frasier's office, Sweet pointed the rifle toward one of the officers, resulting in all three
officers opening fire. Sweet died from his wounds at the scene.

Earlier that day, Sweet did stop by the Coos Bay Police Department because he thought the police
were looking for him. Officers at the station told Sweet they were not looking for him and Sweet
left. However, police did discover that Sweet had a suspended driver license. T hey made attempts
to contact Sweet to tell him not to drive, according to Frasier. Police later spotted him driving
Saturday morning and made an attempt to stop him and a pursuit ensued.

Coos Bay Police called off the pursuit for safety reasons. North Bend Police later spotted Sweet
and also attempted to make a traffic stop. A pursuit, again ensued and it was later called off for
safety reasons. Police then went to Sweet's Johnson Avenue residence to arrest him for felony
eluding and driving with a suspended license and that's when the shooting occurred, according to

Frasier.

T he autopsy on Sweet's body is scheduled for T uesday.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Southwestern Oreg on Publishing  Co., Inc.

 
UPDATED: Coos County District Attorney finds - World, The (Coos Bay,
OR) - July 3, 2018
July 3, 2018 | World, The (Coos Bay, OR) | Amanda Linares

COQUILLE — Police officers involved in the shooting of a Coos Bay man the morning of June 23,
were found justified in their use of deadly force and will not face any criminal charges, it was
announced Tuesday at a press conference held by Coos County District Attorney Paul Frasier.

T he shooting followed two police pursuits by several police agencies throughout Coos Bay and
North Bend. T he officers initiated the pursuit after they discovered Eric Sweet
suspended driver's license. Frasier said the pursuing officers were also prepared to arrest Sweet on
an additional charge of felony eluding since he fled from officers.

Eric Sweet  was driving with a

In an investigation conducted by the Coos County District Attorney's Office, it was discovered that
officers, upon approaching Sweet's residence at 475 Johnson Avenue in Coos Bay, that he had
armed himself with four rifles and ammunition.

According to Frasier, Sweet had taken two rifles outside his home, a Mossberg .22 and a
Remington .270, and laid them on the ground near an open box of .30-30 mm-caliber ammunition.
Officer Doug Laird, of the Confederated Tribal Police Department, saw Sweet holding a third rifle in
which he was in the process of loading.

On a police dashboard camera, Officer Laird can be heard yelling at Sweet to drop his gun. For over
three minutes, other officers joined in and demanded Sweet drop his weapon on the ground. In
response, Sweet can be heard saying either "he can't" or "he won't." According to Frasier, you
could also hear Sweet responding to officers that the gun is loaded. About a few minutes later,
Sweet pointed his gun at Officer Laird, who then returned fire at Sweet. Officers from the Coos Bay
Police Department and the Oregon State Police also fired at Sweet..

After the initial shooting, Sweet was seen by all three officers involved in the shooting attempting
to get back up and reach for his weapon. He was struck by a total of eight bullets, which struck his
head, neck, chest and abdomen.

Sweet was pronounced dead at the scene. Preliminary toxicology reports found that Sweet did
have methamphetamine in his system. Officers also discovered four vials containing injectable
testosterone in his home. It is unknown yet whether he had the added testosterone in his system.
A full toxicology report will be completed in about three weeks, according to Frasier.

T he involved officers included Oregon State Police Trooper Kurtis Matthews, Officer Dan
Henthorn of the Coos Bay Police Department and Officer Doug Laird of the Confederated T ribal
Police Department. All three officers cooperated with investigators and were cleared to return
back to work, upon the discretion of their agencies.

Under Oregon Law (ORS 161.209), any citizen is entitled to defend themselves against a person
who is attacking them or someone else that is present. T he use of deadly, physical force is justified
in the person reasonable believes that their live is in danger.

"All three officers have indicated that they believe they had no other option than to fire their
firearms at Mr. Sweet," said Frasier in a press release. "It is my judgement that any reasonable
person faced with the same facts would have taken the same action...no criminal action will be
taken against any of the officers."

According to DMV reports, Sweet had his driving privileges suspended a total of 28 times from
1997 to 2015 for a variety of reasons including failure to pay traffic ticket fines, failure to attend
hearings for said tickets and driving without insurance. In 1998 and 2008, he was convicted for
driving under the influence of intoxicants. In addition, he was also convicted for disorderly conduct
and resisting arrest in 1997 and burglary in the second degree in 1990.

T he Douglas County Major Crimes Team assisted in the investigation as well as the Coos County
Sheriff's Office, the Bandon Police Department and the Myrtle Point Police Department. In addition
four evidence technicians from the Eugene Police Department were also on hand to help process
and map out the crime scene. Following officer-involved shooting protocol, the Coos Bay Police
Department, the Confederated Tribal Police and the Oregon State Police were all recused from the
investigation as well as the North Bend Police Department.

T imeline of Shooting:

At 6:19 a.m., Sweet had actually approached officers near the parking lot of the Coos Bay Police
Department to ask them if they had been searching for his vehicle. According to Frasier, he was
described as being erratic and hard to understand. He then proceeded to explain to officer's that
he had heard on television that the police were looking for his vehicle and that is was involved in an
accident. Officers there checked out Sweet's car and found no damage, after getting reports for a
nearby burglary the two parties separated. In route, Coos Bay Police dispatch informed officers
that Sweet had a suspended license and so the pursuit began.

At 6:32 a.m., Sweet was recorded on a lobby camera at the North Bend Police Department walking
through the building attempting to open doors that were locked and then shortly exited. He was
later tracked down driving southbound on Highway 101 driving recklessly with high speeds up to 90
mph and passing multiple stops signs and red lights. As reported previously, officers did attempt to
stop Sweet but ended pursuits due to safety reasons.

At 6:40 a.m., Officer Henthorn, who arrived first on scene, approached Sweet's vehicle and placed
stop sticks in front of his tires and shut off the car's engine. Office Kirk, of Coos Bay Police
Department, had arrived next and parked his car behind Sweet's Camaro in an attempt to block
him in.

It was noted in the press release, that Henthorn and Kirk had actually knocked on the front door of
Sweet's residence before locating him. Shortly after, Matthews and Laird appeared on scene. Laird
drove pass the residence and turned his vehicle on Fifth Street to face the home. It was then he
saw Sweet holding a .30-30 caliber rifle.

At 6:44 a.m., initial shots were fired by Laird, Henthorn and Matthews. Sweet was seen falling to
ground and attempting to reach for his rifle once more which resulted in another round of shots.
Laird fired a total of five rounds, Henthorn a total of six and Matthews a total of two rounds, each
between both volleys. According to the press release by the Coos County District Attorney's office,
a total of 13 shots were fired and Sweet was stuck by eight bullets.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Southwestern Oreg on Publishing  Co., Inc.

 
Police fatally shoot Coos Bay man - Associated Press State Wire: Oregon
(OR) - June 26, 2018
June 26, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Oregon (OR)

COOS BAY, Ore. (AP) — Authorities say police fatally shot a Coos Bay man who pointed a rifle at an
officer.

Coos County District Attorney Paul Frasier says the shooting happened Saturday after police had
Eric Sweet  for safety reasons.
twice stopped pursuing suspect Eric Sweet

T hey later found the car parked haphazardly outside Sweet's home.

Frasier says Sweet emerged with a rifle and pointed it at an officer. Three officers opened fire, and
Sweet died at the scene.

T he World reports the officers involved were identified Monday as Coos Bay Police Officer Dan
Henthorn, Officer Doug Laird of the Confederated Coos, Lower Umpqua and Siuslaw Tribal Police
Department and Oregon State Trooper Kurtis Matthews.

T he officers are on paid administrative leave during the investigation.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
DA: Coos Bay man shot 8 times by police - Associated Press State Wire:
Oregon (OR) - July 2, 2018
July 2, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Oregon (OR)

COOS BAY, Ore. (AP) — A Coos Bay man fatally shot by police last month sustained eight gunshot
wounds.

T he World newspaper reports Eric Sweet
allegedly pointing a rifle at an officer.

Eric Sweet  was shot in the head, neck, abdomen and legs after

Coos County District Attorney Paul Frasier has scheduled a Tuesday press conference to discuss
the facts of the shooting and say if it was legally justified.

T he shooting happened June 23 after police had twice stopped pursuing Sweet for safety reasons.

T hey later found the car parked haphazardly outside Sweet's home. Police say Sweet then
emerged with a rifle.

Shots were fired from an officer with the Coos Bay Police Department, the Confederated T ribal
Police and Oregon State Police.

___

Information from: T he World, http://www.theworldlink.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 


Grand jury declines to indict officer in deadly - Dayton Daily News (OH)
- August 14, 2018
August 14, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Breaking News Staff

KET T ERING —

A nine-year veteran officer of the Kettering Police Department who shot and killed a man in an
exchange of gunfire May 5 in a city apartment building after a domestic disturbance was not
indicted by a grand jury.

M itchell
T he Kettering Police Department said Andrew DiSalvo, 31, was the officer who shot M itchell
Simmons , 24, at the Chatham Village Apartment complex.
Simmons

T he Montgomery County Coroner's Office ruled Simmons' death a homicide, saying he died as a
result of multiple gunshot wounds.

MORE: Kettering police shooting: Services set for man who sought officer job

DiSalvo joined the police department in 2009 and has worked as a K-9 officer since 2013. He also
was appointed to the SWAT  team in 2012.

He is a Centerville High School graduate and attended Otterbein College. He also graduated from
the Ohio State Highway Patrol Academy.

MORE: New details emerge on Kettering man in fatal police shooting

DiSalvo arrived on the scene at 5114 Scarsdale Drive after a caller had described a woman being
attacked in a neighboring apartment and hearing her cries for help.

Police say DiSalvo could hear the argument between Simmons and a woman and advised
dispatchers he was forcing entry into the apartment. Gunfire was exchanged — DiSalvo was not
hit. First aid was rendered, but Simmons was pronounced deceased a short time later.

T uesday afternoon, a Simmons family spokesperson issued a statement: "We intend to review the
entire investigative file and will comment at that time."

DiSalvo's personnel file reflects good performance reviews since he was sworn in as a patrol
officer in 2009. T here was one instance of discipline issued in March of 2010 for violation of policy
and procedure.

DiSalvo's last two yearly reviews in 2016 and 2017 indicated that he performed at the
"Outstanding" or "Above Standards" levels. Kettering Police Chief Chip Protsman wrote, "without
your willingness to take on extra assignments, this organization would not be as successful."

T wo 911 calls placed by a neighbor detail a frantic scene going on inside the apartment at 5114
Scarsdale Drive.

"T here was a woman screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!' I can hear her
and she kept screaming 'Get off, get off. I can't breathe. You broke my nose. My nose is bleeding
and I can't breathe,'" a neighbor said in the first 911 call placed.

MORE: Nurse on Kettering police: 'T hey did what they could' to save man shot

A second call placed by the neighbor after officers arrived on scene stated, "T here was a woman
screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!' "

Simmons, a 2012 Beavercreek High School grad, was working at Wright-Patt Credit Union as a
fraud investigator at the time of his death. He had recently interviewed with Kettering police to
become a law enforcement officer in the city, according to Gabrielson.

Got a tip? Call our monitored 24-hour line, 937-259-2237, or send it to newsdesk@cmgohio.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 
Man killed by Ohio officer sought job with - Associated Press State Wire:
Ohio (OH) - May 8, 2018
May 8, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Ohio (OH)

KET T ERING, Ohio (AP) — Police in southwest Ohio say a man killed by an officer in an exchange of
gunfire during a domestic dispute was interviewed for a law enforcement job by the department's
chief days earlier.

T he Dayton Daily News reports a Kettering police spokesman said Tuesday that 24-year-old
M itchell Simmons  met last week with the chief and department captains.
M itchell Simmons

A Kettering officer responding to a 911 call about a domestic dispute forced his way inside an
apartment and killed Simmons Saturday night. Police spokesman Lt. Michael Gabrielson said police
are investigating who opened fire first.

T he officer wasn't injured. He's been placed on paid administrative leave.

T he Montgomery County Coroner's Office says Simmons was shot multiple times.

It was the second fatal police shooting in Kettering in the last year.

___

Information from: Dayton Daily News, http://www.daytondailynews.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Kettering man killed by officer interviewed with - Dayton Daily News
(OH) - May 8, 2018
May 8, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Nick Blizzard

T he man killed in a deadly shooting with Kettering police was in the process of interviewing to
become a law enforcement officer in the city, authorities said T uesday.

M itchell Simmons  had last week met with the police chief and captains as part of the interview
M itchell Simmons
process, said Kettering Lt. Michael Gabrielson.

RELAT ED: New details emerge after Kettering man fatally shot by police

Simmons, 24, was fatally shot Saturday night in his Chatham Village apartment by an unidentified
Kettering officer. It was the second police-involved shooting in the city since August and the 10th in
the region in the past year.

RELAT ED: Kettering police shooting: 911 dispatchers praised for work under pressure

T he Montgomery County Coroner's Office officially ruled Simmons' death a homicide Monday
afternoon, saying he died as a result of multiple gunshot wounds.

T he unnamed officer has been placed on paid administrative leave, which is standard procedure in
cases of officer-involved shootings.

RELAT ED: Kettering police shooting: 911 caller describes violent encounter

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 
Ohio police officer shoots, kills suspect - Telegraph Herald (Dubuque,
IA) - May 7, 2018 - page 7
May 7, 2018 | Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA) | The Associated Press | Page 7

COLUMBUS, Ohio - Authorities said Sunday they were reviewing a suburban Ohio community's
second fatal police shooting in a year's time after an officer shot and killed a suspect who a 911
caller described attacking a woman as she screamed.

Kettering Police Chief Christopher Protsman said the "violent confrontation" at an apartment in the
suburb of Dayton, southwest of Columbus, was reported to police just after 11 p.m. Saturday. He
said the officer entered alone and both the suspect and an officer discharged their firearms.

T he suspect who died was Mitchell Simmons
Coroner's Office said. He died at the scene. T he officer was not injured, and his name was not
released.

M itchell Simmons , 24, of Kettering, the Montgomery County

In 911 audio released by the department on its Facebook page, a concerned neighbor describes
hearing a man attacking a woman and the woman "crying a lot" and screaming for help.

"T here was a woman screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!'" she told a
dispatcher. "I can hear her and she kept saying, 'Get off! Get off! I can't breathe. You broke my
nose. My nose is bleeding and I can't breathe.'"

Protsman said the responding officer heard a woman in need of help and forced his way into the
apartment alone and encountered Simmons with a gun. He said an autopsy of Simmons was
planned.

T he fatal shooting comes less than nine months after Kettering Officer Jonathon McCoy shot and
killed Jason Hoops, 33, of Fairborn, in what began as a traffic stop.

A grand jury declined to indict McCoy in the Aug. 27 shooting in December. Authorities said McCoy
was conducting a traffic stop when he saw Hoops had a firearm. Dashcam video released later
showed McCoy warning Hoops repeatedly not to reach for a gun, before McCoy fired.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

 
Cop responding to 'violent confrontation' shoots, - Associated Press
State Wire: Ohio (OH) - May 6, 2018
May 6, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Ohio (OH) | JULIE CARR SMYTH Associated Press

COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Authorities said Sunday they were reviewing a suburban Ohio
community's second fatal police shooting in a year's time after an officer shot and killed a suspect
who a 911 caller described attacking a woman as she screamed.

Kettering Police Chief Christopher Protsman said the "violent confrontation" at an apartment in the
suburb of Dayton, southwest of Columbus, was reported to police just after 11 p.m. Saturday. He
said the officer entered alone and both the suspect and an officer discharged their firearms.

T he suspect who died was Mitchell Simmons
Coroner's Office said. He died at the scene. T he officer was not injured, and his name was not
released.

M itchell Simmons , 24, of Kettering, the Montgomery County

In 911 audio released by the department on its Facebook page , a concerned neighbor describes
hearing a man attacking a woman and the woman "crying a lot" and screaming for help.

"T here was a woman screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!'" she told a
dispatcher. "I can hear her and she kept saying, 'Get off! Get off! I can't breathe. You broke my
nose. My nose is bleeding and I can't breathe.'"

Protsman said the responding officer heard a woman in need of help and forced his way into the
apartment alone and encountered Simmons with a gun. He said an autopsy of Simmons was
planned.

T he fatal shooting comes less than nine months after Kettering Officer Jonathon McCoy shot and
killed Jason Hoops, 33, of Fairborn, in what began as a traffic stop.

A grand jury declined to indict McCoy in the Aug. 27 shooting in December. Authorities said McCoy
was conducting a traffic stop when he saw Hoops had a firearm. Dashcam video released later
showed McCoy warning Hoops repeatedly not to reach for a gun, before McCoy fired.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Kettering police shooting: Officers tried to - Dayton Daily News (OH) -
May 7, 2018
May 7, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Breaking News Staff Kaitlin Schroeder

KET T ERING —

A 24-year-old man was fatally shot in an apartment late Saturday night by a Kettering police officer
who was responding to a report of a woman yelling for help in an apparent case of domestic
violence.

* Incident happened at Chatham Village Apartments

* Simmons and the officer, who was not ID'd, fired weapons, police said.

* Man fatally shot identified as Mitchell Simmons

M itchell Simmons , 24, of Kettering

RELAT ED: New details emerge on Kettering man in fatal police shooting

Update@5:30 p.m.:

T ammy Hildebrecht said she lives across the parking lot from the apartment where Simmons was
fatally shot. When the shots were fired, her husband knew it was gunshots and they looked out of
their window, she said.

"All of the sudden, I heard Boom, boom, boom, boom and then a pause and then boom, boom,
boom, boom," Hildebrecht said. "At the time, we didn't know who did the shooting, didn't know the
officer did the shooting but I'd say, a pause, then four shots."

After the shots were fired, police cruisers came flying in from all directions, Hildebrecht said.
Although it was dark, she she said she saw Kettering officers attempting to revive Simmons.

"I could see officers giving CPR, I'm a nurse, I understand CPR, they did what they could," she said.

T he Montgomery County Coroner's office completed Simmons autopsy Monday and ruled his
death a homicide. He died of multiple gunshot wounds, according to the coroner.

RELAT ED: Kettering police shooting: 911 dispatcher praised for work under pressure

Update@1:09 p.m.:

First report:

Both the police officer, whose name was not released Sunday, and the man who was shot,

M itchell Simmons , fired their guns, said Kettering police Chief Chip Protsman.
M itchell Simmons

Simmons died at the Chatham Village Apartments.

A dispatcher told a neighbor who called 911 that her call likely saved the woman.

"You did the right thing by calling. You probably saved her life," a Kettering police dispatcher said.

RELAT ED: Kettering police-involved shooting: 911 caller describes violent encounter

Protsman said during a press conference Sunday an officer was sent about 11:10 p.m. to an
apartment at 5114 Scarsdale Drive. T he police officer had been dispatched to the apartment after
a 911 caller who identified herself as a neighbor said she could hear a woman crying and screaming
inside the apartment.

"T here was a woman screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!' I can hear her
and she kept screaming 'Get off, get off I can't breathe. You broke my nose, my nose is bleeding
and I can't breathe,'" the neighbor said.

T he officer forcibly entered the apartment and once inside encountered Simmons, who had a gun,
Protsman said. Almost immediately, the officer then reported: "Shots fired! Shots fired!" the 911
call recording shows.

RELAT ED: 10 police-involved shootings reported in past year in this region

T he officer entered the apartment off East Rahn Road alone and was not injured. Protsman said
he believes this was a case of domestic violence and said that the woman suffered minor injuries.

"One officer went upstairs … there was like eight shots fired," the 911 caller said in her second,
frantic call to police dispatchers. "Please tell me the officer's OK."

"Ma'am, the officer is OK … All of our people are OK," a dispatcher told the woman.

T he investigation is ongoing and no other information was made available. T he officer was placed
on paid administrative leave until the investigation is complete, which is the department's protocol.

Saturday's fatal shooting is the 10th officer-involved shooting in the region in the past year. It's the
second Kettering police-involved shooting in the past nine months.

RELAT ED: 2017 Kettering Police Shooting: Cruiser camera video released

Police officer Jonathon McCoy shot and killed Jason M. Hoops, 33, of Fairborn on Aug. 27, 2017,
after a traffic stop of a gray Ford van he was riding in near Craig Drive and East Bataan Drive.
McCoy was not indicted by a Montgomery County grand jury in December, according to the
Montgomery County Prosecutor's Office.

Protsman has said McCoy acted properly by firing after giving 30 commands to the occupants to

get out of the vehicle after the officer spotted a gun grip sticking out of Hoops' pocket. Protsman
said Hoops did not comply with McCoy's instructions and the officer feared for his own safety.

Montgomery County Coroner's Office released Simmons' name and said an autopsy will be
performed.

FIRST  REPORT :

Police surrounded an apartment complex with yellow crime scene tape late Saturday night after
reports of gunfire.

T here was a heavy police presence at the complex off Scarsdale Drive in the city.

Residents reported hearing gunshots, but it's not clear what led police to cordon off the area.

It's also not clear whether anyone has been injured or arrested.

We are working to learn more information and will update this report as warranted.

Got a tip? Call our monitored 24-hour line, 937-259-2237, or send it to newsdesk@cmgohio.com.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 
Kettering police shooting: Services set for man - Dayton Daily News
(OH) - May 9, 2018
May 9, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Nick Blizzard

Services have been set for the Kettering man killed by police last weekend as officers responded to
a domestic dispute at his apartment.

T he family of Mitch Simmons will hold public services Thursday and Friday, according to his
obituary.

Simmons, 24, was fatally shot Saturday night in his Chatham Village apartment by an unnamed
officer responding to the report of a domestic dispute.

T he 2012 Beavercreek High School graduate had days earlier interviewed with Kettering Police
Chief Chip Protsman and two captains as the department looked to fill two officer vacancies.

RELAT ED: New details emerge after Kettering man fatally shot by police

T he Ohio University graduate with a criminal justice degree had cleared several hurdles in the job
application process with the Kettering Police Department.

Since earning his degree, Simmons had been employed at Wright-Patt Credit Union in the Fraud
Prevention Department and was recently promoted to the position of fraud investigator.

T he family will greet Simmons' friends on Thursday from 5-9 p.m. at the Routsong Funeral Home,
2100 E. Stroop Road, Kettering, Ohio 45249. Funeral services will be held at 11 a.m. Friday at Christ
Church United Methodist, 3440 Shroyer Road, with Pastor Jenn Carter officiating.

Family graveside services will be held on Saturday at the Newport Cemetery in Newport, Ohio.
Condolences may be sent to the family by visiting www.routsong.com.

RELAT ED: Kettering police shooting: 911 dispatchers praised for work under pressure

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 
Kettering police name officer involved in deadly - Dayton Daily News
(OH) - May 9, 2018
May 9, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Wayne Baker

KET T ERING —

A 9-year veteran of the Kettering Police Department is the officer who shot and killed a man in an
exchange of gunfire late Saturday in a city apartment building after a domestic disturbance.

T he Kettering Police Department on Wednesday said Andrew DiSalvo, 31, was the officer who shot
M itchell Simmons , 24, at the Chatham Village Apartment complex.
M itchell Simmons

T he Montgomery County Coroner's Office officially ruled Simmons' death a homicide, saying he
died as a result of multiple gunshot wounds.

T he Dayton Daily News and WHIO-T V used Ohio's public records requests to obtain the
information, which included DiSalvo's personnel file and Simmons' application for a city police
officer job. Lt. Michael Gabrielson said that the department "will not be making any additional
comments or statements regarding this information."

DiSalvo joined the police department in 2009 and has worked as a K-9 officer since 2013. He was
also appointed to the SWAT  team in 2012.

He is a Centerville High School graduate and attended Otterbein College. He also graduated from
the Ohio State Highway Patrol Academy.

On Saturday night, DiSalvo arrived on the scene at 5114 Scarsdale Drive after a caller had
described a woman being attacked in a neighboring apartment and hearing her cries for help.

Police say DiSalvo could hear the argument between Simmons and a woman and advised
dispatchers he was forcing entry into the apartment. Gunfire was exchanged — Simmons
reportedly shot at DiSalvo, who returned fire. First aid was rendered, but Simmons was pronounced
deceased a short time later.

DiSalvo is on paid administrative leave, which is standard after an officer-involved shooting.

His personnel file reflects good performance reviews since he was sworn in as a patrol officer in
2009. T here was one instance of discipline issued in March of 2010 for violation of policy and
procedure.

DiSalvo's last two yearly reviews in 2016 and 2017 indicated that he performed at the
"Outstanding" or "Above Standards" levels. Kettering Police Chief Chip Protsman wrote, "without
your willingness to take on extra assignments, this organization would not be as successful."

T wo 911 calls placed by a neighbor detail a frantic scene going on inside the apartment at 5114
Scarsdale Drive.

"T here was a woman screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!' I can hear her
and she kept screaming 'Get off, get off. I can't breathe. You broke my nose. My nose is bleeding
and I can't breathe,'" a neighbor said in the first 911 call placed.

A second call placed by the neighbor after officers arrived on scene stated, "T here was a woman
screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!' "

Simmons, a 2012 Beavercreek High School grad, was working at Wright-Patt Credit Union as a
fraud investigator at the time of his death. He had recently interviewed with Kettering police to
become a law enforcement officer in the city, according to Gabrielson.

According to his obituary, services for Simmons will be held from 5 to 9 p.m. Thursday at the
Routsong Funeral Home, 2100 E. Stroop Road, Kettering. Funeral services will be held at 11 a.m. on
Friday at Christ Church United Methodist, 3440 Shroyer Rd., Dayton.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 
Cop responding to suspicious-person call shoots, - Associated Press
State Wire: Ohio (OH) - May 6, 2018
May 6, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Ohio (OH)

KET T ERING, Ohio (AP) — Police are investigating an Ohio suburban community's second fatal
shooting of a suspect by an officer in a year.

Kettering Police Lt. Michael Gabrielson says police were responding to a suspicious-person report
at an apartment complex in the Dayton suburb at 11:10 p.m. Saturday. T he officer entered the
building and a short while later reported shots fired.

T he Montgomery County Coroner's Office on Sunday identified the man who died as 24-year-old
M itchell Simmons . T he officer was not injured.
M itchell Simmons

In December, a grand jury declined to indict Officer Jonathon McCoy in the fatal shooting of an
armed man during a traffic stop. McCoy shot 33-year-old Jason Hoops on August 27 after
authorities say Hoops refused repeated orders to put his hands on the vehicle's dash.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
New details emerge on Kettering man in fatal - Dayton Daily News (OH)
- May 8, 2018
May 8, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Wayne Baker

KET T ERING —

Police released more information on Mitchell Simmons
responding Saturday night to a report of domestic violence in the Chatham Village Apartment
complex.

M itchell Simmons , 24, who was shot and killed by an officer

Simmons was employed by Wright-Patt Credit Union at the time of his death, according to a police
report released Monday afternoon.

Kettering police shooting: Officers tried to revive man at scene, neighbor says

Simmons also was an Ohio University graduate, according to the Registrar's Office in Athens,
which said he received two degrees while there - an associate's degree in applied science in 2015
and a bachelor's degree in criminal justice in 2016.

Simmons graduated from Beavercreek High School in 2012, the school confirmed Monday
afternoon.

T he 24-yer-old female victim of the alleged domestic violence was taken to a local hospital for
treatment of her injuries, according to Lt. Michael Gabrielson.

"We do know the female victim did receive treatment at a local hospital, but she wasn't
transported by a medic," Gabrielson said. "T here were no injuries to the officers who responded to
the scene."

He added that the investigation is ongoing, so some details won't be released now, as the case will
get prepared to go to the prosecutor and eventually a grand jury.

T he Montgomery County Coroner's Office officially ruled Simmons' death a homicide Monday
afternoon, saying he died as a result of multiple gunshot wounds.

T he latest report released Monday afternoon revealed further details of what officers
encountered Saturday night were released.

T he officer arrived on the scene at 5114 Scarsdale Drive in the Chatham Village Apartment
complex and forced entry into an apartment after hearing what police reports say were a woman's
cries for help. Simmons was killed when the officer returned fire, police said.

Shortly after 11 p.m., "officers called to the residence by a neighbor advising of a possible male and

female fighting," the report states. "An officer arrived on scene and could hear the argument and
advised dispatch he was forcing entry into the apartment. Gunfire was exchanged and first aid
rendered. T he male, suspect of the domestic violence, was pronounced deceased."

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 
Grand jury declines to indict cop who fatally shot - Lima News, The (OH)
- August 15, 2018
August 15, 2018 | Lima News, The (OH)

DAYT ON (AP) — A police officer who authorities say fatally shot an armed man who turned a gun
on a woman and on the officer who was responding to a domestic violence call at an Ohio
apartment won’t face criminal charges.

Montgomery County Prosecutor Mat Heck Jr. said Tuesday that grand jurors declined to indict the
officer in 24-year-old Mitchell Simmons

M itchell Simmons ’ May 5 death in the Dayton suburb of Kettering.

Investigators said 31-year-old Kettering officer Andrew DiSalvo heard a female screaming,
identified himself and entered the apartment, where he saw Simmons pointing a gun at a woman’s
head. Authorities say Simmons pointed the gun at DiSalvo and back at the female, and DiSalvo
fired his weapon, killing Simmons. Authorities said Simmons shot at the female but missed.

Jurors found the officer acted lawfully.

© 2018 AIM Media Midwest Operating , LLC.

 
The Latest: 911 call describes attack by man shot - Associated Press State
Wire: Ohio (OH) - May 6, 2018
May 6, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Ohio (OH)

KET T ERING, Ohio (AP) — T he Latest on an Ohio police officer's fatal shooting of a suspect (all
times local):

Police have released 911 audio in which a neighbor describes a violent encounter between a
woman and a suspect who was fatally shot by an Ohio officer on Saturday.

T he female neighbor tells a Kettering police dispatcher that the woman is "screaming very loudly,"
crying for help and begging the man to stop hurting her. She says she hears the woman telling the
man that he broke her nose and what sounds like him trying to hold her face under a pillow.

T he department released the audio on its Facebook page on Sunday.

Kettering Police Chief Christopher Protsman says his officer encountered 24-year-old M itchell
M itchell
Simmons  while responding to the call and both discharged their weapons. Simmons died at the
Simmons
scene.

It is Kettering's second fatal shooting of a suspect by an officer in a year.

Police are investigating an Ohio suburban community's second fatal shooting of a suspect by an
officer in a year.

Kettering Police Chief Christopher Protsman said Sunday that police were responding to a report
of a "violent confrontation" at an apartment complex around 11 p.m. Saturday when the suspect
and an officer both discharged their firearms.

M itchell Simmons .
T he Montgomery County Coroner's Office identified the victim as 24-year-old Mitchell Simmons
He died at the scene. T he officer was not injured, and his name was not released.

In December, a grand jury declined to indict Kettering Officer Jonathon McCoy in the fatal shooting
of an armed man during a traffic stop. McCoy shot 33-year-old Jason Hoops on August 27 after
authorities say Hoops refused repeated orders to put his hands on the vehicle's dash.

4 p.m.

___

11:45 a.m.

___

11:20 a.m.

Police are investigating an Ohio suburban community's second fatal shooting of a suspect by an
officer in a year.

Kettering Police Lt. Michael Gabrielson says police were responding to a suspicious-person report
at an apartment complex in the Dayton suburb at 11:10 p.m. Saturday. T he officer entered the
building and a short while later reported shots fired.

T he Montgomery County Coroner's Office on Sunday identified the man who died as 24-year-old
M itchell Simmons . T he officer was not injured.
M itchell Simmons

In December, a grand jury declined to indict Officer Jonathon McCoy in the fatal shooting of an
armed man during a traffic stop. McCoy shot 33-year-old Jason Hoops on August 27 after
authorities say Hoops refused repeated orders to put his hands on the vehicle's dash.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Kettering police shooting: 911 dispatchers praised - Dayton Daily News
(OH) - May 7, 2018
May 7, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Wayne Baker

KET T ERING —

UPDAT E @2:03 p.m.: Lt. Michael Gabrielson of the Kettering Police Department said two 911
dipsatchers should be saluted for good work as they handled two frantic calls under pressure in an
officer involved shooting incident Saturday night.

"Alberta Feil was the first dispatcher and Whittney Selby the second. T hey both started with KPD on
April 4, 2016," Gabrielson said.

EARLIER: A Kettering 911 dispatcher is being praised for her performance under pressure during an
officer-involved shooting incident Saturday night.

Lt. Michael Gabrielson of the Kettering Police Department told this news outlet Monday that the
dispatcher's performance "was an example of how things are supposed to work."

T he dispatcher handled frantic calls from a woman living in the Chatham Village Apartments who
was relaying information that seemingly pointed out that a neighbor's life was in danger.

"T here was a woman screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!' I can hear
her, and she kept screaming, 'Get off, get off. I can't breathe. You broke my nose. My nose is
bleeding and I can't breathe,' " the neighbor reported in her 911 call she made at 11:10 p.m.

"You did the right thing by calling. You probably saved her life," a Kettering police dispatcher told a
911 caller who reported domestic violence from the apartment above her.

M itchell Simmons , 24, shot at the officer who had arrived on the scene at 5114

Police said Mitchell Simmons
Scarsdale Drive and who forced entry into the apartment after hearing the woman's cries for help.
Simmons was killed when the officer returned fire, police said.

Saturday's performance by the Kettering 911 dispatcher is how the system should work, according
to police.

"T hat is exactly the way it is supposed to work when it comes down to how the dispatcher handled
things and the 911 caller providing information," Gabrielson said. "Specifically in survival situations,
that is the way it should be handled. Of course, everything worked well independent of the result,
which was very unfortunate."

He added that the investigation is ongoing, so details of the firearm used by Simmons and the
identify of the victim aren't being released yet, and some details won't be released for months, he

said, as the case will get prepared to hand over to the prosecutor and eventually a grand jury.

"We do know the female victim did receive treatment at a local hospital, but she wasn't
transported by a medic," Gabrielson said. "T here were no injuries to the officers who responded to
the scene."

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 


 
EppingOfficer who shot at motorist identified 

month. 

determine the manner of death. 

New Hampshire authorities have released the name of a state trooper who fired his gun at a motorist in Epping last

Forty-year-old Walter Welch of Fremont died Sept. 29 of gunshot wounds to the head but an autopsy did not

The attorney general's office said Thursday that Trooper Kevin Dobson fired his gun during the incident. Dobson,

who has been on the force for about a year and a half, has been placed on administrative leave. 

Authorities have said a state trooper responding to a call about an erratic driver approached Welch's pick-up truck,

which was stopped on Route 101. During the encounter, the officer fired his gun. Authorities say Welch had a gun

in his hand. 
 
 


 
A man who was fatally shot by a New Hampshire State Police trooper Saturday allegedly had a gun in his hand

when he was killed, according to the New Hampshire attorney general. 

In a statement, the attorney general's office identified the victim Sunday as Walter Welch, Jr., 40. His place-of-

residence was not immediately available. 

on administrative leave, per department policy. 

Welch was shot during a traffic stop off Route 101 in Epping, according to the statement. The trooper has been put

At about 6:43 p.m., State Police dispatch received a 911 call reporting an erratic driver driving a white pickup truck

westbound on the state highway, according to the statement. Shortly before 7 p.m., a trooper stopped the truck on

Beede Road, off Exit 6 in Epping. 

“An encounter ensued" after the trooper approached the car, the attorney general's office said in the statement.

“During the encounter, the Trooper discharged his weapon." 

Welch, who was the sole occupant of the truck, was declared dead on the scene and was allegedly found holding a

gun, according to the statement. An autopsy is scheduled for Monday.  

The trooper was evaluated at a local hospital but was not injured in the incident. . The trooper's name is not being

released until after his interview, which is expected next week, the attorney general's office said.  

The incident is under investigation. 

3636. 

State Police asked any witnesses to contact New Hampshire State Police Sergeant William Bright at 603-271-

The Epping incident marked the third police-involved shooting in New Hampshire this year, and the second

involving State Police, assistant attorney general John J. Kennedy said in an e-mail.  

In June, a 29-year-old man was shot by a Nashua police officer and survived, the Globe reported. Last month,

another man was killed in a shootout with local and State Police in Rochester. 

Lucas Phillips can be reached at lucas.phillips@globe.com. 

Credit: By Lucas Phillips Globe Correspondent 
 
 


 
EPPINGMan, 40, killedin police shooting 

roadside encounter. 

Police say a gun was found in the hand of a 40-year-old man who was shot to death by a state trooper during a

Authorities say that at about 6:45 p.m. Saturday, police received a report of an erratic driver on state Route 101. A

trooper spotted the pickup truck about 15 minutes later stopped off Exit 6 in Epping. 

Police say that when the trooper approached the vehicle “an encounter ensued” in which the trooper discharged

his firearm, killing Walter Welch, Jr. 

Welch, the sole occupant of the pick-up, died at the scene. The trooper, whose name was not released, was placed

on administrative leave. An autopsy is scheduled for Monday. 
 
 


 
New Hampshire Attorney General Gordon J. MacDonald issued the following news release: 

Attorney General Gordon J. MacDonald and New Hampshire Police Colonel Christopher J. Wagner announce

additional information concerning the officer-involved shooting that took place on September 29, 2018 in Epping,

New Hampshire. 

Earlier today, New Hampshire's Chief Medical Examiner Dr. Jennie V. Duval conducted an autopsy on Walter Welch,

Jr., age 40, of Fremont, New Hampshire. Dr. Duval determined that the cause of Mr. Welch's death was gunshot

wounds to the head and the manner of death is undetermined. 

The exact number and sequence of gunshots fired during the incident remains under active investigation. 

No further information will be released until after the Trooper's formal interview, which is expected to take place

this week. 

MSTRUCK-6466634 MSTRUCK 
 
 


 
EPPING, N.H. (AP) - An investigation continues into the death of a 40-year-old man who was shot by a New

Authorities say they received a report of an erratic driver Saturday night and discovered Walter Welch Jr.'s pickup

State police say "an encounter ensued" and the trooper shot and killed Welch. Police say a gun was in Welch's

Welch's sister Tonya Hayes tells WFXT-TV her brother was a responsible gun owner and "wouldn't hurt a fly." The

trooper, whose name has not been released, is on administrative leave.  

Hampshire state trooper.  

truck stopped in Epping.  

hand.  

An autopsy is scheduled for Monday.  

Credit: By KEN RITTER, Associated Press 
 
 


 
EPPING, N.H. (AP) - The Office of the Attorney General concluded Wednesday that a New Hampshire state trooper

was justified in shooting at a drunk driver last year after the man fired first.  

During a traffic stop Sept. 29, Walter Welch Jr. shot at Trooper Kevin Dobson, who returned fire. Dobson fired four

times on Welch's truck, hitting him twice. But Welch also shot himself about the same time, and the medical

examiner could not say which bullet killed him.  

In a report released Wednesday, the attorney general's office found that Dobson was justified in firing at Welch, 44,

of Fremont.  

Dobson was responding to a call about an erratic driver, when he approached Welch's pickup truck, which was

stopped on Route 101 in Epping. During the encounter, the attorney general's office said Welch acknowledged to

Dobson that he had been drinking heavily.  

As part of its investigation, the attorney general's office released audio of several 911 calls. In one, a driver behind

Welch described him as a drunk driver who was "white line bouncing like crazy" and almost hit a toll booth. Another

driver called him erratic and feared he would cause an accident.  

A toxicology report later determined that Welch had a blood alcohol concentration of .234, nearly three times the

state's legal limit.  

Welch shot himself.  

After talking briefly with Dobson, Welch raised a gun and shot in the direction of the trooper. Dobson retreated to

the back of the truck and ordered Welch repeatedly to drop his weapon, according to the report. He refused and,

instead, appeared to be getting out of his truck. Dobson then fired four shots into the back of the truck just as

"Based upon the evidence and considering all of the circumstances as they were presented to Trooper Dobson, it

was reasonable for Trooper Dobson to believe that he faced an imminent threat of deadly force from Walter Welch,

Information from: Foster's Daily Democrat, http://www.fosters.com  

Jr.," the attorney general's report said.  

___  

Credit: By KEVIN FREKING, Associated Press 
 
 


State patrol: Deputy justified in fatal Joplin - Joplin Globe, The (MO) -
March 2, 2018
March 2, 2018 | Joplin Globe, The (MO) | Jeff Lehr

A Missouri State Highway Patrol investigation has determined that a Jasper County deputy's fatal
shooting of a Joplin man on Jan. 2 was justified.

Sheriff Randee Kaiser said a state patrol report returned this week found that Deputy Jason
Hutchins acted in a lawful manner when he shot and killed 66-year-old Louis C. M iller
Landreth Ave. Hutchins was responding to a call for backup help from two other deputies who
were serving civil court documents on Miller at the time.

Louis C. Miller at 901 N.

T he process servers called for backup assistance when Miller confronted them inside his residence
armed with a large knife.

T he sheriff said Miller's roommates, Mindi Hitt, 39, and Orlander Edwards, 45, who had been letting
Miller reside with them, sought and obtained an ex parte order earlier that day in response to Miller
purportedly having become increasingly confrontational with them in the days preceding the
shooting. Joplin police were told by Hitt that Miller had threatened to kill Edwards during an
argument with her while Edwards was at work.

"After those threats were made, they wanted him to move out," Kaiser said.

T he process servers met the couple at a residence next door and obtained their permission to
enter the house and serve the papers on Miller.

Kaiser said the court order was a "move-out" ex parte, meaning Miller needed to leave the
residence. As the two deputies entered through the front door and announced their presence,
Miller emerged from the back of the house displaying the knife, the sheriff said. T he deputies called
for assistance and tried to calm him down.

"T hey instructed him several times to drop the knife or put it down," Kaiser said.

In the meantime, Hutchins, a detective with the sheriff's office who happened to be in Joplin at the
time, and a fourth deputy arrived on the scene in response to the call for backup. T he sheriff said
Hutchins' decision to draw his service weapon was "an appropriate response" when confronted by
someone armed with a lethal weapon.

Kaiser said Hutchins fired a single round, striking Miller in the chest when Miller charged at him
inside the house. He was pronounced dead at a Joplin hospital a short time later.

T he sheriff said he was uncertain how many of the other deputies had their guns drawn when the
shooting took place. But no other shots were fired and no deputies were injured, he said.

T he sheriff's office did not publicly identify Hutchins as the officer who shot Miller until Friday and
provided few details about the shooting while the state patrol investigation was in progress. Kaiser
said he did not know why the investigation took two months to complete.

Return to duty

Deputy Jason Hutchins was placed on administrative leave following the Jan. 2 shooting of Louis
Miller. Hutchins returned to active duty a few days later.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Joplin Globe / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 

Joplin man died shortly after officer-involved - Joplin Globe, The (MO) -
January 3, 2018
January 3, 2018 | Joplin Globe, The (MO) | Jeff Lehr

A Joplin man shot Tuesday afternoon — when he purportedly charged Jasper County deputies as
they were serving civil court papers on him — died a short time later at a Joplin hospital.

Louis C. M iller, 66, was pronounced dead at 3:48 p.m. at the hospital where he was taken
Louis C. M iller
following the shooting about 3 p.m. at 901 N. Landreth Ave., according to a statement released
today by the Jasper County Sheriff's Department.

T he Missouri State Highway Patrol is investigating the officer-involved shooting.

T he sheriff's office said Tuesday that deputies went to the address to serve civil courts documents
on Miller. He purportedly came to the door with a knife in his hand, prompting the deputies to call
backup officers to the scene. Sgt. Tim Williams, of the sheriff's office, told the Globe that as
backup help arrived at the address, Miller came at the officers with the knife and was shot.

T he sheriff's office has yet to release the names of the officers involved in the shooting. Williams
said Tuesday that no officers were injured but declined to discuss the number of shots fired in the
incident or the number of wounds sustained by Miller. His death was not made public Tuesday and
his name was withheld pending notification of next of kin.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Joplin Globe / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 
Patrol rules shooting by deputy justified - Carthage Press, The (MO) -
March 7, 2018 - page 9
March 7, 2018 | Carthage Press, The (MO) | The Carthage Press | Page 9

T he Missouri State Highway Patrol has ruled a Jasper County Sheriff's Deputy was justified in
shooting a Joplin man who investigators say charged deputies with a knife in a home in Joplin on Jan.
2.

T he shooting victim, Louis C. M iller

Louis C. M iller, 66, died of a single gunshot wound.

T he Sheriff's Office said the Patrol cleared Deputy Jason Hutchins of any wrong-doing in the
incident.

According to a written statement released by the Sheriff's Office on Friday, the investigation into
the shooting was immediately turned over to the Patrol, and the results were returned this week to
the Sheriff's Office and Jasper County Prosecutor.

T he report says Hutchins responded to 901 N. Landreth Avenue at about 3 p.m., Jan. 2, when
deputies with the Sheriff's Office Civil Process Division called for help regarding a man in the home
with a knife.

Civil Process officers were attempting to serve an order of protection to Miller at the home.

"Upon contacting him at the residence he picked up a large knife," the Sheriff's Office said in its
statement on Friday. "Deputies gave repeated commands for Miller to drop the knife. Miller
pointed the knife in their direction and charged at them. Deputy Hutchins fired one shot, striking
Miller in the chest. He died from the wound."

Copyrig ht 2018 The Carthag e Press. All Rights Reserved.

 
Squabble with roommates preceded fatal shooting of - Joplin Globe, The
(MO) - January 3, 2018
January 3, 2018 | Joplin Globe, The (MO) | Jeff Lehr

T he fatal shooting of a 66-year-old man by sheriff's deputies Tuesday afternoon in Joplin was
preceded by escalating tensions with two roommates who might have sought an ex parte order
against him.

T he Jasper County Sheriff's Department was serving civil court documents on Louis C. M iller
Louis C. M iller
about 3 p.m. Tuesday when Miller came to the door of his home at 901 N. Landreth Ave. armed
with a knife, prompting the process-serving deputies to request backup assistance.

As other officers arrived at the scene, Miller purportedly charged at the deputies with the knife and
was shot. He was taken to a Joplin hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 3:48 p.m.

T he death was not made public or Miller's name released until Wednesday morning when next of
kin had been notified. T he Missouri State Highway Patrol is investigating the shooting because an
officer was involved.

Investigators have yet to identify the officer or officers involved. Sgt. Tim Williams, with the
sheriff's department, on Tuesday said that no officers were injured. Williams has declined to
divulge how many shots were fired in the incident, the number of deputies who fired their weapons
or the number of wounds on the deceased pending completion of the patrol's investigation.

"We don't want to do anything that's going to compromise that," Williams said.

Globe inquiries led to an acknowledgement Wednesday by Joplin police that Miller's roommates,
Mindi D. Hitt, 39, and Orlander T . Edwards, 45, had lodged a complaint with police T uesday
morning that Miller had become increasingly confrontational with them in recent days.

Hitt told police that Miller threatened to kill Edwards during an argument with her on Monday while
Edwards was at work, according to Capt. Trevor Duncan, with the Joplin Police Department.

"T hey did not want to press charges, however, (so) the officer gave them information on how to
obtain an ex parte against him," Duncan said.

Williams declined Wednesday to say whether an ex parte was the document being served on Miller
when he was shot and killed. T he state's electronic court records system did not show that an ex
parte had been issued.

"I can't comment on what the civil documents were," Williams said.

Hitt and Edwards could not be reached for comment. No one answered the door at the address

when a Joplin Globe reporter went there Wednesday.

Results unavailable

An autopsy on the body of Louis Miller was being conducted Wednesday at Frontier Forensics in
Kansas City, Kansas. T he results of that autopsy were not available Wednesday night, according to
Jasper County Coroner Rob Chappel.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Joplin Globe / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 

$10M lawsuit filed in fatal Royal Oak police - Oakland Press, The
(Pontiac, MI) - November 27, 2018
November 27, 2018 | Oakland Press, The (Pontiac, MI) | Mike McConnell mmcconnell@digitalfirstmedia.com;
@mmcconnell01 on Twitter

Parents of a Royal Oak man fatally shot by police are seeking $10 million in a lawsuit, claiming
police used excessive force and violated his civil rights when he was was shot.

Cody Reynolds
Cody Reynolds , 20, was shot May 14 on Hudson Street near South Wilson in Royal Oak. T he
incidents leading up to the fatal shooting started after 3 a.m. when Reynolds' mother called 911
from their house in the 1000 block of Hoffman.

She told police Reynolds had stabbed her with a knife and struck his father in the head with a guitar.

"Reynolds was the victim of unlawful deadly force while unarmed, having been shot multiple times,
with the fatal gunshot wound to his back," the family's attorney A. Vince Colella said in the lawsuit,
which was filed Monday in U.S. District Court in Detroit.

T he suit names the city and Royal Oak Officer Ryan Addis as defendants.

City Attorney Dave Gillam said the city would make no comment on the suit.

"We're not going to litigate the case in the press," he said.

Police Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said he had no comments beyond those he made Aug. 16, when
the Oakland County prosecutor's office ruled that the shooting was a justifiable homicide. At that
time he said "the events that occurred on May 14 can only be described as heartbreaking … our
thoughts and prayers go out to the Reynolds family."

Oakland County Sheriff's detectives investigated the shooting, reviewing police-car video and audio
recordings before turning the case over to prosecutors for review.

Addis, a four-year veteran of the department, spotted Reynolds on nearby Hudson Street as the
officer was driving to investigate the stabbing, authorities said at the time.

Prosecutors said Addis tried to back away from Reynolds and ordered him to the ground. Reynolds
briefly complied, then suddenly sprang up and lunged at the officer. Prosecutors said the officer
believed Reynolds posed a deadly threat.

Later was it discovered that Reynolds no longer had the knife he used to stab his mother,
prosecutors said.

An autopsy by Dr. Bernardino Pacris, Oakland County's deputy medical examiner, said Reynolds

was shot in the chest and back a total of four times. Blood tests showed that Reynolds had the
hallucinogenic drug psilocin in his system, an illegal substance.

Colella said in a statement Monday that the medical examiner determined the first shot struck
Reynolds in the chest and was non-fatal.

"T hree other bullet wounds were found in his back," he said. "Why? T he report does not explain this
use of excessive and deadly force."

T he suit alleges that evidence -- including the autopsy report -- supports the claim that the officer
unlawfully shot Reynolds multiple times in his back without cause.

Reynolds' death came just over a month after motorist Antonino Gordon, 28, was fatally shot by a
Royal Oak officer April 10 at the White Castle at 13 Mile Road and Coolidge. Genesee County
prosecutors reviewed the case and ruled Aug. 1 that the shooting was justified.

T he two fatal police shootings by Royal Oak police this year were the first the department has seen
since an officer fatally shot a fraud suspect on Main Street in 1998. T hat shooting was ruled
accidental by the Oakland County prosecutor's office.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Oakland Press

 

 
May 14--ROYAL OAK, Mich. -- A 20-year-old man was killed in an officer-involved shooting early Monday in Royal

Oak. 

said. 

Cody Reynolds was pronounced dead at a hospital after the altercation, in which police say the unarmed man

charged at a police officer, Royal Oak Police Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said at a press conference Monday. 

Police were called about 3:10 a.m. Monday, May 14 to the 1000 block of Hoffman Avenue for the report of a

domestic assault, according to Channel 7 (WXYZ), which aired the press conference. 

Reynolds' mother called to report being stabbed by her son, who also hit his father in the head with a guitar,

according to the report. 

O'Donohue told reporters that Reynolds had been out with friends and the altercation began over him playing

guitar too loud. He said it's believed Reynolds may have been under the influence of a substance. 

After the altercation with his parents, an officer spotted Reynolds walking nearby and told him to stop, O'Donohue

O'Donohue said Reynolds told the officer he stabbed his mom and began approaching the officer. He then abruptly

got on the ground, and then got up and charged at the officer, O'Donohue said. The officer fired at Reynolds, then

administered first aid. 

O'Donohue said there was no way for the officer to tell that Reynolds wasn't armed. 

Reynolds' parents were both hospitalized with non-life threatening injuries. 

The matter remains under investigation. 

Reynolds was on probation for a previous conviction of operating a vehicle while intoxicated causing serious

injury, police said. 

This is the second police-involved shooting reported in the region this weekend. 

A Dearborn Heights police officer shot and killed a 38-year-old man armed with a rifle about 3:30 a.m. May 13

outside a barbecue restaurant. 

This is also the second officer-involved shooting in Royal Oak in the last month. 

An officer fatally shot Antonino T. Gordon shortly after 6 p.m. April 11 in the drive-thru of the White Castle fast food

restaurant near 13 Mile and Shenandoah in Royal Oak. 

Police said Gordon fled a traffic stop a short time before his death, but haven't said why he was shot. 

CREDIT: By Darcie Moran 
 
 

Lawsuit seeks millions in death of young man by - Associated Press
State Wire: Michigan (MI) - November 26, 2018
November 26, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Michigan (MI)

ROYAL OAK, Mich. (AP) — T he family of a young man who was fatally shot by police in suburban
Detroit has filed a lawsuit seeking $10 million, alleging his civil rights were violated when he was
shot in the back.

T he lawsuit was filed Monday in federal court. Cody Reynolds
police of using excessive force in May.

Cody Reynolds ' mother is accusing Royal Oak

At the time, police said they were responding to reports that Reynolds had stabbed his mother and
assaulted his father with a guitar. Police say they encountered Reynolds walking away from the
scene. An officer ordered the 20-year-old to the ground, but he rushed at the officer.

Reynolds wasn't armed. Part of the encounter was recorded on police dashcam video . Royal Oak
city attorney David Gillam declined to comment on the lawsuit.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Royal Oak police officer fatally shoots Royal Oak - Oakland Press, The
(Pontiac, MI) - May 14, 2018
May 14, 2018 | Oakland Press, The (Pontiac, MI) | Mike McConnell

A Royal Oak man was fatally shot by a police officer shortly after his mother called 911 early
Monday and reported he had stabbed her and hit his father in the head with a guitar.

Police said the call came in at 3:11 a.m. from a house in the 1000 block of Hoffman, a few blocks
west of Campbell Road.

A few minutes later, Royal Oak Police Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said an officer fired shots and
killed Cody Reynolds

Cody Reynolds , 20, on Hudson between McClean and South Wilson.

Cody Reynolds  a few blocks from his home," O'Donohue said
"One of the officers encountered Cody Reynolds
during a news conference. "T he officer exited his vehicle and asked Cody to stop. He didn't stop
and continued to approach the officer. He indicated he had just stabbed his mother."

T he officer told Reynolds to get on the ground, police said.

Once Reynolds closed the distance a bit between himself and the officer, police said he abruptly got
down on the ground, but quickly arose.

"He got up very aggressively and charged at the officer as the officer was backing up from him,"
O'Donohue said. "T he officer fired at Cody, striking him."

It was the second officer involved fatal shooting in Royal Oak in just over a month. T he Oakland
County Sheriff's Department is still investigating the fatal shooting of a motorist, Antonino
T homas Gordon, 27, of Commerce T ownship, at a White Castle after police said he fled a traffic
stop April 10.

In Monday's shooting, police said the officer involved had no way of knowing whether Reynolds
was armed at the time when the officer fired four shots. O'Donohue said it turned Reynolds had no
weapon.

T he officer administered first aid to Reynolds as Royal Oak Fire Department medical emergency
technicians headed to the area. He was later pronounced dead at Beaumont Hospital. Reynolds'
parents were also taken to the hospital, but police said their injuries were not serious.

Police said the officer who shot Reynolds has been with the department for more than four years.

T he county sheriff's office is now handling the investigation of the latest shooting and the officer is
on administrative leave pending the outcome.

Apparently the incident with Reynolds and his parents started when he returned home in the early
morning hours.

"It sounds like he was out with some friends and (his parents) are speculating he was maybe on
something ... and playing his guitar very loud and was very out of sorts, or out of character,"
O'Donohue said. "What the family is dealing with now is a very tragic situation and they are trying
to make some sense of it." T he knife Reynolds stabbed his mother with may have broken when it
hit a collar bone and he grabbed another knife, O'Donohue said,

Reynolds had a prior contact with city police last year. He was intoxicated and driving the wrong
way on Woodward Avenue and hit another vehicle. Reynolds was later convicted of a felony for
drunken driving resulting in a serious injury.

Until the police shooting in April, Royal Oak had not had an officer involved shooting in two
decades. O'Donhue said it was important to look at the fatal shootings in the past month as
"separate and unique instances."

"Any loss of life is tragic," he said. "T he public should be critical of how we respond ... when it results
in someone's death we should be held to an extremely high standard and under a microscope."

Royal Oak police do not wear body cameras, though they do have in-car video and audio
transmitters. O'Donohue said he doesn't think the department has a need for body cameras right
now but the department reviews that decision annually. He cited challenges of storing thousands
and thousands of hours of body camera video in a department with 79 sworn officers.

O'Donohue also noted that 11 officers have just been cited for life-saving awards and another
three officers for bravery.

"Royal Oak is a safe community," he said, adding that serious crime was down 15 percent last year.
T his year's annual police report shows crime is down by nearly half since 2007.

Reynolds' father told police he and his family wish to have privacy and not comment on Monday's
shooting.

"T his is a terrible thing," O'Donohue said. "T hese domestic situations are volatile and dangerous ...
this one had a tragic end that didn't need to be this way."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Oakland Press

 
Officer fatally shoots man who reportedly - Associated Press State Wire:
Michigan (MI) - May 14, 2018
May 14, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Michigan (MI)

ROYAL OAK, Mich. (AP) — Authorities say a Detroit-area police officer has fatally shot a man who
reportedly assaulted his parents and rushed at the officer afterward.

Royal Oak police say 20-year-old Cody Reynolds
were injured.

Cody Reynolds  died in the early Monday shooting. No officers

Police say officers responded after a 911 caller reported she'd been stabbed by her son and the
son struck his father in the head with a guitar. Police say they encountered Reynolds walking away
from the scene and an officer ordered him to the ground, but he rushed at the officer.

Part of the encounter was recorded on police dashcam video . Reynolds' parents had what were
described as minor injuries.

Police Chief Corrigan O'Donohue says the officer is on administrative leave as the Oakland County
sheriff's office investigates.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Royal Oak police officer cleared in May 14 fatal - Royal Oak Review (MI) -
August 17, 2018
August 17, 2018 | Royal Oak Review (MI) | Sarah Wojcik

ROYAL OAK — In a report dated Aug. 15, the Oakland County Prosecutor's Office concluded that
the May 14, 2018, shooting death of 20-year-old Royal Oak resident Cody Reynolds
Cody Reynolds  by Officer
Ryan Addis was a "justifiable homicide."

T he Prosecutor's Office said its investigation resulted in the determination that it would authorize
no criminal charges against Addis because he was "acting in lawful self-defense."

According to a description of the event in the report, Reynolds woke his parents at their Royal Oak
home in the early morning May 14 and appeared to be under the influence of some drug — they
described him as "mumbling," "bizarre" and "psychotic."

According to the toxicology report, Reynolds' blood showed the presence of psilocin, the
hallucinogenic part of psilocybin, which is found in several species of mushrooms. T he report
states that "psilocybin mushrooms are hallucinogenic and produce profound changes in
consciousness and perception."

When Reynolds' father attempted to get his son to go to bed, Reynolds hit him in the head with a
guitar and shortly after stabbed his mother in the upper chest, according to the Aug. 15 report. In a
previous interview, Royal Oak Police Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said the blade struck her bone and
that Reynolds had wielded it with enough force to break the knife.

Reynolds' mother called 911 at approximately 3:11 a.m. May 14 to report the incident.

Minutes after the call, Addis encountered Reynolds walking barefoot down the street on Hudson
Avenue, approximately 280 feet from Reynolds' residence's backyard, and Addis stopped his patrol
car and exited his vehicle, according to the Aug. 15 report.

Addis said that he did not know if Reynolds was armed. Reynolds was not armed.

According to the investigation, Addis ordered Reynolds, who was slowly walking toward him, to
stop and asked if Reynolds was the one who had stabbed somebody, to which Reynolds said, "Yes."

Once Reynolds closed the distance between himself and Addis, he abruptly went to the ground,
then "without warning, he sprang up and lunged at Officer Addis," according to the Aug. 15 report.

Addis backed up, braced himself, "expecting that Reynolds was going to stab him in the neck," and
fired "until Reynolds stopped charging him and fell to the ground," the report states.

Reynolds was shot four times, according to the report, with the first shot entering his chest and

three others entering his back.

Officers administered first aid until the Royal Oak Fire Department arrived and transported
Reynolds to Beaumont Hospital, Royal Oak, where he was later pronounced dead.

At the time, police said, Reynolds was on probation for an incident in 2017 in which he drove the
wrong way on Woodward, was involved in an accident and seriously injured another driver. Police
arrested him for operating while intoxicated causing serious injury — a felony. His blood alcohol
content was 0.247, according to the report.

O'Donohue said police also discovered drug paraphernalia in Reynolds' car at the time.

According to the investigation, Reynolds had a history of depression and attempted suicide.

T he Royal Oak Police Department said it hired Addis in August 2014 and that he has no history of
use-of-force complaints.

"T he events that occurred on May 14 can only be described as heartbreaking," Royal Oak Police
Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said in a statement. "Our thoughts and prayers go out to the Reynolds
family."

On Aug. 1, the Royal Oak Police Department held a press conference to announce that the
Genesee County Prosecutor's Office had cleared Officer Keith Bierenga, an 11-year veteran of the
force, of all criminal wrongdoing in the April 10, 2018, fatal shooting of 28-year-old Antonino
Gordon in a White Castle drive-thru.

Bierenga attempted to make a traffic stop of a BMW driven by Gordon at approximately 6:11 p.m.
April 10 near 13 Mile Road and Coolidge Highway, but the BMW fled through the nearby White
Castle parking lot.

Approximately 15 minutes later, Bierenga observed the same vehicle in the White Castle drive-thru
and parked his patrol car at a 45-degree angle in front of the BMW. He exited his vehicle with his
weapon drawn and the BMW twice reversed and then rapidly pulled forward, according to Genesee
County Prosecutor David Leyton's report.

Bierenga fired four shots into the open driver's side window, three of which hit Gordon, according
to the report. Gordon then exited the parking lot to the east, crossed over the centerline of West
13 Mile Road and struck a minivan near Shenandoah Drive.

First responders transported him to Beaumont Hospital, Royal Oak, where he was pronounced
dead.

According to the toxicology report, Gordon's blood alcohol content was over three times the legal
limit, and he also tested positive for cannabinoids.

At the time of the incident, Gordon had a criminal bench warrant for drunken driving-second
offense with a $75,000 bond, and he had numerous contacts with law enforcement, including

operating while intoxicated and disorderly conduct, police said.

Prior to the two separate officer-involved shootings in April and May of this year, O'Donohue said,
Royal Oak police had not been involved in a fatal shooting for 20 years.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Royal Oak Review (MI), All Rights Reserved.

 
Family files $10M lawsuit over Royal Oak police - Detroit News, The (MI)
- November 27, 2018 - page B2
November 27, 2018 | Detroit News, The (MI) | Robert Snell | Page B2

T he family of a 20-year-old Royal Oak man killed after allegedly charging police during a domestic
dispute filed a $10 million lawsuit Monday against the city.

A Royal Oak Police officer illegally shot Cody Reynolds
civil rights, according to the lawsuit filed by the dead man's mother, Michelle Reynolds, in federal
court.

Cody Reynolds  multiple times in the back and violated his

Reynolds' mother accuses Officer Ryan Addis of using excessive force and claims the city has an
unconstitutional policy that lets officers use deadly force against citizens.

"Our thoughts and prayers continue to go out to the Reynolds family, but the city will not offer any
comment on the pending litigation," City Attorney David Gillam wrote in an email to T he News.

T he lawsuit was filed six months after an incident at the Reynolds' family home in the 1000 block of
Hoffman.

Police responded to the neighborhood after Reynolds was accused of stabbing his mother and
hitting his father in the head with a guitar.

An officer saw Reynolds walking in the area minutes after the call came in, got out of his patrol car
and ordered him to stop, police said.

Reynolds said he had stabbed his mother.

T he officer ordered him to the ground.

He complied initially, but a dash cam recording shows Reynolds rushing toward the officer.

T he officer pulled his gun and fired, striking Reynolds, then administered first aid as EMS was
alerted to the scene, police said. Medics transported him to Royal Oak Beaumont Hospital, where
he died.

T he shooting happened on Hudson near South Wilson, which is around the corner from the
family's home and is north of Interstate 696 and west of Campbell.

Dash cam video of the confrontation, released hours after the shooting, shows an officer pull up
to the scene to find Reynolds standing near a dark vehicle.

Reynolds approaches the officer and is told to put his hands up. He ignores the order and steps

toward the officer, and is again told to put his hands up, which he did.

T he officer orders him to get on the ground, which he does briefly before popping back up and
approaching the officer, running toward him.

T he officer then fires five shots.

"However, the evidence, including the autopsy report, supports that Officer Addis unlawfully shot
Reynolds multiple times in his back without cause, resulting in his death," the family's lawyer A.
Vince Colella wrote in the lawsuit.

Royal Oak Police Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said the suspect was not armed, but that there's no
way the officer could have known that at the time.

Reynolds' death was the second fatal officer-involved shooting in Royal Oak in as many months.
On April 10, Antonino Thomas Gordon was shot outside a White Castle restaurant.

rsnell@detroitnews.com

(313) 222-2486

T witter: @robertsnellnews

(c) 2018, The Detroit News. All rights reserved.

 
Man ran at officer before shots - Video shows - Detroit News, The (MI) -
May 15, 2018 - page A3
May 15, 2018 | Detroit News, The (MI) | James David Dickson | Page A3

Royal Oak – A domestic violence incident that allegedly started with a Royal Oak man stabbing his
mother and hitting his father ended in the man's death by an officer Monday, police said.

T he Royal Oak Police Department identified the victim as Cody Reynolds

Cody Reynolds . He was 20.

Reynolds' death is the second recent fatal officer-involved shooting in Royal Oak. T he April 10
shooting of Antonino Thomas Gordon outside a White Castle restaurant in the city remains under
investigation.

T he stabbing and report of Reynolds' allegedly striking his father in the head with a guitar took
place at 3:11 a.m. on the 1000 block of Hoffman at Reynolds' home.

An officer saw Reynolds walking in the area minutes after the call came in, got out of his patrol car
and ordered him to stop.

Reynolds said he had stabbed his mother. T he officer ordered him to the ground. He complied
initially, "but then quickly rushed towards the officer in an aggressive manner."

T he officer pulled his gun and fired, striking Reynolds, then administered first aid as EMS was
alerted, police said. He was taken to Royal Oak Beaumont Hospital, where he died. T he shooting
happened on Hudson near South Wilson, which is around the corner from the family's home.

Dash-cam video released hours after the shooting shows an officer pulling up to the scene and
finding Reynolds standing near a vehicle. Reynolds approaches the officer and is told to put his
hands up. He steps toward the officer and is again told to put his hands up, at which point he does.
T he officer orders him to get on the ground, which he does briefly before popping back up and
running toward the officer. T he officer fired five shots. At least four shell casings were found at the
scene.

Royal Oak police Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said Reynolds was not armed, but that there's no way
the officer could have known that at the time.

"If someone is willing to assault their parents, they'd be willing to assault anybody," O'Donohue
said.

He began a news conference by offering condolences to the Reynolds family, and later offered
thoughts to the officer who fired the fatal shots.

"No officer wants to go through this," O'Donohue said. "T his is a terrible thing."

He said the officer has been placed on administrative leave.

Royal Oak police do not wear body cameras, and O'Donohue said Monday he saw no need for
them. Officers wear transmitters that record audio. He described the problem with body cameras
as one of data storage.

Reynolds' parents were taken to a hospital but their injuries are not believed to be life-threatening.

Reynolds was on probation for a 2017 drunken driving incident on Woodward in which there were
serious injuries.

T he Oakland County Sheriff's Office is investigating the shooting.

(c) 2018, The Detroit News. All rights reserved.

 

 
A 20-year-old Royal Oak man was killed by a police officer who tried to arrest him shortly after he allegedly stabbed

his mother and assaulted his father early Monday, authorities said. 

Royal Oak police confirmed that Cody Reynolds was killed in the shooting just after 3 a.m. at East Hudson and

South Wilson. 

shooting in Royal Oak in as many months. 

It was the second fatal shooting by a police officer in metro Detroit in two days —and the second officer-involved

A 38-year-old Redford man was shot and killed early Sunday by a Dearborn Heights police officer as he walked on

Telegraph Road with a loaded rifle, authorities said. 

At a news conference held at Royal Oak Police headquarters, Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said police were called to a

home in the 1000 block of Hoffman in response to a report of a domestic assault. 

O'Donohue said the 911 caller was Reynolds' mother, who reported she was stabbed by her son and that her son

also struck his father in the head with a guitar. 

house and ordered him to stop. 

One officer responded to the scene, O'Donohue said. That officer encountered Reynolds a few blocks from his

O'Donohue said Reynolds continued to slowly approach the officer and said that he had just stabbed his mother. 

"The officer again told him to stop and get on the ground, once Cody kind of closed the distance a bit, he very

abruptly went down to the ground. Almost immediately upon going to the ground, he got up very aggressively and

charged at the officer as the officer was backing up from him. The officer fired at Cody, striking him," O'Donohue

said. 

The officer administered first aid, the Royal Oak Fire Department responded and O'Donohue said Reynolds was

transported to Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak where he was pronounced dead. Reynolds' parents were also taken

to Beaumont for treatment of non-life threatening injuries. 

O'Donohue said that according to preliminary information investigators found four bullet casings at the scene. 

O'Donohue said Reynolds was not armed during his encounter with the officer, but went on to say there was no

way the officer could have known that. 

Reynolds was on probation for a 2017 conviction of operating a vehicle while intoxicated, causing serious injury.

O'Donohue said Reynolds was driving the wrong way on Woodward when he struck another vehicle. 

He said the officer involved will be placed on administrative leave. The Oakland County Sheriff's Office is

investigating the shooting. 

the influence —causing incapacitating injury. 

For the 2017 incident on Woodward, court records show Reynolds was charged with one count of operating under

Secretary of State records indicate the incident included two vehicles, and two people were injured. 

Reynolds pleaded no contest, according to court records. He was sentenced to 180 days in jail and put on

probation for two years. 

O'Donohue said the Reynolds family is trying to make sense of what happened Monday. 

"It sounded like he was out with some friends. They're speculating that maybe he was on something, but he came

in and was apparently playing his guitar very loud, causing a disruption, and was very out of sorts or out of

character ... again, what the Reynolds family has to deal with now is a tragic situation," O'Donohue said. 

In dash cam video shared by Royal Oak Police, Reynolds can be seen slowly approaching the patrol car as the

officer asks him to stop. 

The officer asks Reynolds to put his hands on the head, he pauses, but then continues toward the officer. Reynolds

is then seen putting his hands on his head and getting to the ground, but then he suddenly charges toward the

officer and the sounds of multiple gunshots ring out. 

Reynolds' friends were shocked by what happened. Malayna Carmen, 19, attended middle and high school with

him. 

would radiate off of him." 

"I really just want people to know, Cody was always so kind," she said. "I never saw Cody without a smile on his

face. He was always so bright and vivid. Anytime he walked into the room, he had a kindness and happiness that

This incident comes on the heels of another fatal officer-involved shooting that happened in Royal Oak on April 10

after a man fled from a traffic stop near 13 Mile and Woodward. 

The driver, identified as Antonino Thomas Gordon, 28, of Commerce Township sped off in his BMW. 

Royal Oak police said in a statement that officers located Gordon in the drive-through of a White Castle at 13 Mile

and Coolidge. An officer then shot Gordon, who ended up crashing head-on into a minivan on 13 Mile near

According to a news release obtained in April by the Free Press, the officer involved in that incident was not injured

and was placed on administrative leave. The case was turned over to the Oakland County Sheriff's Special

Police said there was a criminal bench warrant out for Gordon's arrest. 

O'Donohue confirmed that the officer involved in Gordon's case is on administrative leave, but the two cases are

"Any loss of life is tragic, and the police department ... (and) the public should be very critical of how we respond

and when it results in someone's death we should be held to an extremely high standard and under a microscope.

But again, these are two separate and unique instances. ... (Royal Oak's) crime rates are way down, our citizen

complaints are down, our engagement with the public is very good. ... These two instances are unique in police

work. This is the ugly reality of police work sometimes." 

Contact reporter Aleanna Siacon at ASiacon@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter: @AleannaSiacon. Staff writers

Shenandoah. 

Investigation Unit. 

"separate and distinct." 

Bill Laitner, Christina Hall, Brandon Patterson and Ann Zaniewski contributed. 
 
 


 
The mother, Michelle Reynolds, filed a $10-million federal civil-rights lawsuit in November against Addis and the

City of Royal Oak, alleging the use of force was unnecessary. 

Part of the encounter was recorded on police dash cam video, which showed Reynolds momentarily complying

with the officer's order to get on the ground, but then springing up and lunging at the officer. 

Cody Reynolds' wounded mother had told a 911 operator her 20-year-old son was no longer armed, but that

information wasn't relayed to the Royal Oak Police officer who shot him to death a little more than a minute later,

according to newly released police reports from the May incident that cited a "terrible" dispatch system. 

Reynolds, who struck his father in the head with a solid-body guitar and stabbed his mother in the chest with a

kitchen knife, had been reflecting on "unconditional love and religion" and "talking 'bizarre' " that night while high on

hallucinogenic mushrooms, his friend and family told investigators in the reports released to the Free Press on

Thursday under the Freedom of Information Act. 

Reynolds' mother, bleeding after the stabbing in their home on the 1000 block of Hoffman, had told a 911 operator

that the knife her son had stabbed her with was still in the kitchen and he had left the house unarmed. But one

minute and 12 seconds later —at about 3:15 a.m. on May 14 —Royal Oak Police officer Ryan Addis, thinking

Reynolds still had the knife, shot him four times as he charged at the officer on the street outside the residence,

according to Oakland County Sheriff's investigators' review of dispatch tapes. 

The 911 operator, also a police officer, later told sheriff's investigators that Royal Oak police used a "terrible

system" of yelling through an opening in a wall to relay information on major calls to dispatchers, the reports said.

After the incident, police found the knife, broken at the handle by a stove in the home's kitchen. 

Dispatch hadn't relayed the mother's message to Addis. The officer asked Reynolds whether he still had the knife,

then Reynolds said "f*** it" and charged Addis, who backed away then fired five shots, according to the reports.

Addis told the investigators he tensed up as Reynolds charged at him, expecting to be stabbed in the neck. 

Part of the encounter was recorded on police dash cam video, which showed Reynolds momentarily complying

with the officer's order to get on the ground, but then springing up and lunging at the officer. 

Autopsy results show Reynolds was shot once in the chest and three times in the back. A toxicology report found

psilocin, the active ingredient in hallucinogenic mushrooms, according to the autopsy report from the Oakland

County Medical Examiner's Office. 

The Oakland County Prosecutor's Office in August cleared Addis of any wrongdoing, ruling the shooting by the

four-year veteran police officer was justified based on the investigation by the sheriff's office. 

The mother, Michelle Reynolds, filed a $10-million federal civil-rights lawsuit in November against Addis and the

City of Royal Oak, alleging the use of force was unnecessary. Police used a dispatch system "regarded by the

department as an unreliable means to relay critical information to officers on the scene," according to the lawsuit 

"In official reports, Officer Addis alleged that Reynolds attempted to attack him by charging forward toward him,

upon his arrival at the scene," the lawsuit alleges. "However, the evidence, including the autopsy report, supports

that Officer Addis unlawfully shot Reynolds multiple times in his back without cause, resulting in his death." 

Attorney T. Joseph Seward, representing the defendants, filed a Dec. 17 response that denied many of the

allegations and said that Addis was "forced to defend himself from the actions of Cody Reynolds." 

Seward declined to comment Thursday when contacted by the Free Press. Attorney A. Vince Colella, who is

representing Michelle Williams in the lawsuit, didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. 

A scheduling conference in the case is set for Jan. 22. 

The sheriff's office reports detail witness and police accounts of what happened that night: 

Cody Reynolds' friend, Eli Lowell, said he picked Reynolds up from his house at about 9 p.m. on May 13, , and they

and another friend went back to Lowell's house, making music on a computer and relaxing. "He has known Cody

since third grade and said that he has not ever witnessed Cody become aggressive, he described him as a kind,

generous person, and what happened the night of the incident was out of character for Cody," according to the

report. 

report. 

Lowell said Reynolds took about 2 grams of mushrooms at about 10:30 p.m., and he was the only one to take

them. He said it appeared Reynolds was having a good time. 

Lowell said Reynolds asked him to drive him home at about 1:30 a.m. or 2 a.m., and that once they arrived, they got

into a "'philosophical' conversation about unconditional love and religion" that became very passionate, and

Reynolds seemed irritated. "Eli said Cody was very religious and Cody was getting 'worked up' about how young

people and religion are perceived, however he could not believe Cody would attack his parents," according to the

Michelle Reynolds said that the son came into her bedroom about a half hour before the shooting and began

"talking 'bizarre'" and "acting 'psychotic.'" She and her husband walked their son down to his bedroom to try to get

him to go to sleep. 

Doug Reynolds, Cody Reynolds' father, said his son hit him in the head with a guitar, and the wound was bleeding

so badly that he took a shower to clean himself up. 

Michelle Reynolds said she was trying to help the father when the son appeared with a kitchen knife. She was able

to talk him into giving her the knife, and she said he was talking "demonic and off the wall crap." Then he picked up

a black steak knife and stabbed her in the chest, and the knife broke. 

Michelle Reynolds said her son left the house and began walking down the street. She called 911 and heard

gunshots a short time later. 

Addis said he was monitoring traffic nearby when he was dispatched to the scene. He found Reynolds in the street,

illuminated him with a spotlight, drew his weapon and told Reynolds to "Stop right there." 

Addis said Reynolds took a couple steps toward him and stopped; he asked Reynolds whether he was the one who

just stabbed somebody, and Reynolds said he was. 

Addis told investigators Reynolds dropped his head and took a couple more steps toward him, at which time he

was told to stop and get on the ground. He said Reynolds then dropped to his knees with his arms in front of him in

a "worship pose." Addis said he asked Reynolds whether he still had the knife. He said Reynolds didn't answer,

instead saying 'F*** it' and charged at him. 

Addis said he began to back pedal away, but Reynolds got so close to him, he was forced to pull his gun into his

own chest, firing shots as he did so." He also said that he began to tense his body, fully expecting to be stabbed in

the neck. 

report. 

The Oakland County Prosecutor's Office, in a report in August, said Reynolds' death occurred after years of issues

that included self-inflicted cutting of his wrists and hospitalization for depression in 2014; a suicide attempt in

2015 with 35-40 Xanax pills and two beers following Reynolds' breakup with his girlfriend, and a drunken driving

conviction in 2017 after Reynolds drove the wrong way on Woodward in Royal Oak, then struck another car in a

collision that caused "extremely serious injuries" to the other driver. 

In the crash, Reynolds was found to have a blood-alcohol level of 0.25 —more than three times the legal threshold

for intoxication —and after a six-month jail term he was released to two years of probation on the condition that he

not use alcohol or marijuana. However, at Reynolds' probation visits, the county's drug checks "would not typically

check for the presence of psilocin" —the hallucinogenic chemical in mushrooms, according to the prosecutor's

Last month, in a separate, unrelated case, the family of a 28-year-old Commerce Township man who was fatally

shot by Royal Oak police outside a White Castle drive-through window in April sued the city, claiming that the

shooting was unjustified. 

That incident is cited in the Reynolds lawsuit, alleging the city failed to train its officers in the proper use of force

and to "adequately investigate and discipline police officers who used excessive and/or deadly force on citizens." 

Contact Robert Allen on Twitter @rallenMI or rallen@freepress.com. Bill Laitner and Steve Pepple contributed to

The mother, Michelle Reynolds, filed a $10-million federal civil-rights lawsuit in November against Addis and the

City of Royal Oak, alleging the use of force was unnecessary. 

Part of the encounter was recorded on police dash cam video, which showed Reynolds momentarily complying

with the officer's order to get on the ground, but then springing up and lunging at the officer. 

this report. 

CREDIT: Robert Allen 
 
 


 
The family of a young man who was fatally shot by a Royal Oak police officer has filed a lawsuit seeking $10

million, alleging he was shot multiple times in the back in an unlawful use of force. 

The lawsuit was filed Monday in U.S. District Court in Detroit by Michelle Reynolds in the death of her 20-year-old

son, Cody Reynolds. The lawsuit claims police used excessive force and violated her son's civil rights during the

early morning confrontation on May 14 outside the family's home on Hoffman Avenue. 

At the time, police said they were responding to reports that Reynolds had stabbed his mother and assaulted his

father with a guitar. Police say they encountered Reynolds walking away from the scene. An officer ordered the 20-

year-old to the ground, but he rushed at the officer, who then fired multiple shots. 

Reynolds wasn't armed at the time he was shot, police said. 

Part of the encounter was recorded on police dash cam video, which showed Reynolds momentarily complying

with the officer's order to get on the ground, but then springing up and lunging at the officer. 

The Oakland County Prosecutor's Office in August cleared Officer Ryan Addis of any wrongdoing, ruling the

shooting by the four-year veteran police officer was justified. 

"Believing that he was about to be stabbed by Reynolds, Officer Addis began firing and continued firing until

Reynolds no longer posed an apparently deadly threat," said a report on the investigation by the prosecutor's

office. 

"The officer's use of force was therefore reasonable under the circumstances, even though it turned out later that

Reynolds was no longer armed with the knife that he had used to stab his mother," said the report signed by Jason

Pernick, chief of the warrants division of the prosecutor's office. 

The investigation also found that the youth had a history of depression and at least one suicide attempt, and that

he'd consumed intoxicating mushrooms on the night of the shooting, according to the Prosecutor's Office. 

The lawsuit, however, contends the shooting was unnecessary and an unlawful use of deadly force. 

"In official reports, Officer Addis alleged that Reynolds attempted to attack him by charging forward toward him,

upon his arrival at the scene," the lawsuit alleges. "However, the evidence, including the autopsy report, supports

that Officer Addis unlawfully shot Reynolds multiple times in his back without cause, resulting in his death." 

The lawsuit claims Addis was "not in imminent or immediate harm" and Reynolds "did not pose a physical threat to

his safety or that of other officers or civilians." 

Citing another fatal shooting by Royal Oak Police just a month earlier, the lawsuit alleges the city failed to train its

officers in the proper use of force and to "adequately investigate and discipline police officers who used excessive

and/or deadly force on citizens." 

Royal Oak City Attorney David Gillam declined to comment on the lawsuit on Monday. 

Free Press staff writer Bill Laitner and the Associated Press contributed to this report. 

Cody Reynolds 

CREDIT: Steve Pepple 
 
 


 
"Believing that he was about to be stabbed by Reynolds, Officer Addis began firing and continued firing until

Reynolds no longer posed an apparently deadly threat." 

Report into May 14 shooting death 

of Cody Reynolds by Royal Oak police officer Ryan Addis 

Authorities on Thursday cleared a Royal Oak police officer of any criminal wrongdoing in the shooting death of a

20-year-old Royal Oak man whose parents called police after their son with a history of mental illness stabbed his

mother and struck his father with a guitar. 

The investigation that cleared Officer Ryan Addis in the shooting death of Cody Reynolds on May 14 also found

that the man had a history of depression and at least one suicide attempt, and that he'd consumed intoxicating

mushrooms on the night of the shooting, according to the Oakland County Prosecutor's Office. 

As the officer and Reynolds approached each other on the street near the family home, about two minutes after his

mother called 911, a squad-car's dash-cam video shows Reynolds momentarily complying with the officer's order

to get on the ground, but then springing up and lunging at the officer. 

"Believing that he was about to be stabbed by Reynolds, Officer Addis began firing and continued firing until

Reynolds no longer posed an apparently deadly threat," said a report on the investigation released Thursday by the

prosecutor's office. 

"The officer's use of force was therefore reasonable under the circumstances, even though it turned out later that

Reynolds; was no longer armed with the knife that he had used to stab his mother," said the report signed by Jason

Pernick, chief of the warrants division of the prosecutor's office. 

The officer is a four-year veteran of the department and has no history of using excessive use of force, said Royal

Oak police Chief Corrigan O'Donohue. Calling the incident "heartbreaking," O'Donohue added: "Our thoughts and

prayers go out to the Reynolds family." 

Family members had no comment, said a man who answered the phone at the home Thursday. 

"I heard the officer was cleared, as expected," the man said. 

Reynolds' death capped years of a troubled man that included self-inflicted cutting of his wrists and

hospitalization for depression in 2014; a suicide attempt in 2015 with 35-40 Xanax pills and two beers following

Reynolds' break-up with his girlfriend; and a drunken driving conviction in 2017 after Reynolds drove the wrong

way on Woodward in Royal Oak, then struck another car in a collision that caused "extremely serious injuries" to

the other driver, the report said. 

In the crash, Reynolds was found to have a blood-alcohol level of 0.25 –more than three times the legal threshold

for intoxication –and after a six-month jail term he was released to two years of probation on the condition that he

not use alcohol or marijuana. However, at Reynolds' probation visits, the county's drug checks "would not typically

check for the presence of psilocin" –the hallucinogenic chemical in mushrooms, according to the prosecutor's

report. 

The report further said that a friend of Reynolds said the two had consumed hallucinogenic mushrooms the night

before Reynolds was shot at about 3:15 a.m. It said that after getting home in the wee hours, and being described

by his parents as acting "bizarre" and "psychotic," he swung a heavy solid-body guitar "like an axe and struck his

father in the head." Next, the man ran to the kitchen, where he picked up a knife on a counter and tried to hide it

behind his arm; but when his mother wrested the knife from him, "Cody picked up another knife and stabbed his

mother in the chest," then left the house as his mother called 911. 

In about 90 seconds, Addis arrived in the area in his squad car and saw a young man who was shoeless, standing

near parked cars and walking toward his car, the report went on. 

It gave this account of the shooting: 

"Although Reynolds' hands were empty, Officer Addis stated he could not tell whether Reynolds had a knife or

some other concealed weapon. He drew his .40-caliber Glock service pistol and ordered Reynolds to stop." 

Reynolds at first ignored the order, then stopped and acknowledged that he had stabbed somebody. After

Reynolds failed to comply with an order to put his hands on his head, and continued to walk toward the officer,

"Officer Addis ordered Reynolds to get down on the ground (and) can be heard asking Reynolds if he still had the

knife. Reynolds did not answer" but instead, "without warning, he sprang up and lunged at Officer Addis," saying

"f*** it" as he did so. 

The officer backpedaled away from Reynolds, who continued coming at the officer, "and in response, Officer Addis

fired his pistol until Reynolds stopped charging and fell to the ground." 

The entire confrontation lasted 33 seconds. Reynolds was struck by four bullets and was pronounced dead at

Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, the report said. In a later search of Reynolds' bedroom, it said, detectives turned

up a note on which the young man had written: "I hate my life." 

Reynolds' death came on the heels of another fatal police shooting on April 10, when a man who fled from a traffic

stop was confronted by a Royal Oak police officer outside a White Castle restaurant's drive-through window. After

refusing orders to exit the BMW he was driving, the fleeing man drove his car at the officer —and was fatally struck

by three of the officer's shots. 

The driver was identified as Antonino Thomas Gordon, 28, who family members said on social media had recently

moved from Commerce Township to Royal Oak. At the time of the shooting, Gordon was being sought by police on

a warrant for a second-offense drunken driving. 

That officer was cleared of wrongdoing in a report released on Aug. 1 by the Genesee County Prosecutor's Office,

chosen to handle the investigation because the Royal Oak officer was familiar to some members of the Oakland

"Believing that he was about to be stabbed by Reynolds, Officer Addis began firing and continued firing until

County Sheriff's Office. 

Contact Bill Laitner: blaitner@freepress.com 

Reynolds no longer posed an apparently deadly threat." 

Report into May 14 shooting death 

of Cody Reynolds by Royal Oak police officer Ryan Addis 

CREDIT: Bill Laitner 
 
 


 
The family of a 28-year-old Commerce Township man who was fatally shot by Royal Oak police outside a White

Castle drive-through window in April has sued the city, claiming that the shooting was unjustified. 

The lawsuit, filed on behalf of the estate of Antonio Gordon in federal court in Detroit, alleges that Royal Oak Police

Officer Keith Bierenga —who fired four times through the open window of the car that Gordon was driving,

according to the police report —violated the dead man's constitutional rights. 

The lawsuit further states that Gordon's estate is owed more than $75,000, to compensate him not only for losing

his life but also for "conscious pain and suffering prior to his death," experienced for less than a minute after he

was shot. 

Free Press reports. 

After being fatally wounded on April 10, Gordon sped away from the White Castle and drove for about a half-mile

before losing consciousness and running head-on into opposing traffic on 13 Mile Road, according to previous

The shooting was ruled justifiable in July by Genesee County Prosecutor David Leyton, who investigated the

shooting at the request of the Oakland County Sheriff's Office. 

The lawsuit was the second filed in less than a month in which family members of a suspect fatally shot by a

Royal Oak officer sued the officer and the city. Last month, the mother of Cody Reynolds sued, alleging that their

20-year-old son was shot five times in the back by a Royal Oak officer after the youth disregarded a command to

lie down and rushed toward the officer in the street outside the family home. Police had responded to the

Reynolds' address after hearing that Cody Reynolds had struck his father in the head with a guitar and stabbed his

mother, a police report said. 

The Royal Oak city attorney's office had no comment on the lawsuit, a spokesman said Wednesday. 

In the White Castle case, the Genesee prosecutor's report of the shooting said that the officer involved told

investigators that "he feared for his life and safety" and that "his belief was reasonable." 

The prosecutor's report said that action recorded by the officer's dash camera as well as from the restaurant's

surveillance camera mounted inside the eatery —combined into one video by the Free Press —shows the officer

repeatedly pursuing the man in a black BMW, even after firing four rounds at him outside the restaurant, until the

BMW crashed into an oncoming car as the incident —and the fleeing man's life —ended. 

The prosecutor's letter also said that police in Michigan are permitted to use deadly force in arresting a fleeing

felon, and that the victim —Antonio Gordon —had displayed behavior that was clearly felonious for two reasons:

Gordon fled the officer's traffic stop for suspected drunken driving and then caused the officer "to jump clear of the

vehicle's path" when Gordon tried to run over him at the White Castle's drive-through window. 

But the lawsuit asserts that "Antonio Gordon did not pose any threat" to Officer Bierenga because the officer was

in no danger of being run down as he stood to the side of the car Gordon was driving and fired through the

vehicle's open window. 

The restaurant's video shows that Bierenga blocked the BMW with his patrol car steps away from the drive-through

window and approached Gordon with his service weapon drawn. Gordon "quickly put his vehicle in reverse,

smashing into the vehicle directly behind him and then accelerated forward, narrowly missing the officer, who had

to jump out of the way" as Gordon rammed the police car, investigators said. 

As Gordon was trying to ram and maneuver the BMW out of the blockade, Bierenga fired his Glock service handgun

"at point blank range," according to the lawsuit. Despite being mortally wounded, Gordon sped off and drove about

a half-mile away with the officer in pursuit before crashing. He was pronounced dead shortly after. 

The shooting sparked controversy when witnesses inside the restaurant told investigators versions of what

happened that conflicted with what the same witnesses later said in affidavits, the Genesee prosecutor's report

said. All of the statements were compared to the video recording captured by the restaurant's surveillance camera,

showing that the original statements to police —backing up the police assertion of a justified shooting —were

correct, according to the prosecutor's report. In addition, rumors that Bierenga was a trigger-happy cop with a

history of reckless behavior were groundless based on an extensive review of his work history, the report said. 

Investigators said autopsy reports indicate that Gordon's bodily alcohol content was three times the legal limit,

and his body tested positive for marijuana use. The shooting had been ruled justified by the Genesee County

prosecutor under Michigan's "Self Defense Act," which states that an individual may use deadly force against

another when they "honestly and reasonably believe the use of deadly force is necessary to prevent imminent

death," or imminent great bodily harm to himself or herself or to another individual. 

The incident began on a Tuesday shortly after 6 p.m. when Bierenga noted Gordon's reckless driving on Woodward

and activated his flashing lights to pull him over, then walked to the BMW only to have Gordon speed off,

endangering other drivers as he swerved, cut into traffic lanes and then veered into the restaurant's parking lot,

according to previous Free Press reports. Bierenga jumped back into his police SUV in pursuit, but Gordon eluded

several officers for more than 10 minutes before Bierenga spotted him sitting in the fast-food eatery's drive-

through lane —buying hamburgers that he didn't live to consume. 

At the time, Gordon was being sought on a criminal bench warrant, Royal Oak police said in April. They said Gordon

had numerous contacts with law enforcement, including multiple arrests for operating while intoxicated and

disorderly conduct, according to a news release from police. Police did not specify the charge associated with the

Cameras; Criminal investigations; Surveillance; Deadly force; Disorderly conduct;

Restaurants

Location:

Oakland County Michigan Michigan Detroit Michigan

Publication title:

Detroit Free Press; Detroit, Mich.

Contact Bill Laitner: blaitner@freepress.com 

warrant. 

CREDIT: Bill Laitner 
 
 


'I'm feeling homicidal,' man shot by cop told 911 - Press of Atlantic City,
The (NJ) - January 26, 2018 - page 1A
January 26, 2018 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | WALDY DIEZ Staff Writer | Page 1A

MILLVILLE - A city man called 911 twice Monday to report he was armed with a gun and "feeling
homicidal" prior to being fatally shot by police, according to a recording of the calls released
T hursday through a public records request.

Edward Gandy
Edward Gandy Jr., 47, of Dock Street, first called 911 at 10:47 a.m. to report he was at High and
McNeal streets with a gun, according to a statement by Cumberland County Prosecutor Jennifer
Webb-McRae.

In the first 911 call to police, a dispatcher asked Gandy how he was feeling.

"I'm feeling homicidal. I'm feeling homicidal," Gandy replied.

T he female dispatcher verified his location at the corner of High and McNeal and asked for his
name before the connection ended.

Gandy, sounding distressed, called 911 a second time with his location.

"I have a gun on me," Gandy said in the second call.

"OK, sir, the police are on their way," the dispatcher responded.

Gandy said he did not know how he felt when the dispatcher asked him what he felt like at the
moment.

A Millville police officer then joined the dispatcher in a three-way call after Gandy said his gun was
loaded. Gandy did not respond to repeated prompts from the officer.

"I have officers up here right now," the officer said before the connection ended.

Webb-McRae said Gandy was fatally shot by police who responded to the 911 calls.

T he prosecutor did not provide details on the time of the second 911 call or when officers arrived
at the scene and how long the confrontation lasted.

T he officer involved in the shooting, whose name was not released, was placed on administrative
leave, Webb-McRae said. No firearm was recovered at the location, she said.

Autopsy results on Gandy have not yet been released.

A Use of Deadly Force Investigation is being conducted by the Cumberland County Prosecutor's
Office per the New Jersey attorney general's July 28, 2015, Supplemental Directive Regarding
Uniform Statewide Procedures and Best Practices for Conducting Police Use of Force
Investigations, Webb-McRae said.

Anyone with information can contact Prosecutor's Office Detective Nicholina Pennington at 856-
362-0751.

Contact: 609-272-7090 WDiez@pressofac.com T witter: @_waldy

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 
Prosecutor: Man, 47, dead in police-involved - Associated Press State
Wire: New Jersey (NJ) - January 22, 2018
January 22, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New Jersey (NJ)

MILLVILLE, N.J. (AP) — Authorities say a man died in an officer-involved shooting in New Jersey
after calling emergency dispatchers to say he had a gun, but no weapon was found.

T he Cumberland County prosecutor's office says 47-year-old Edward Gandy
before 11 a.m. Monday "to report that he had a loaded firearm" and gave a location in Millville.

Edward Gandy Jr. called 911 shortly

Police responded and found him, and Gandy was shot and killed. T he prosecutor's office says no
firearm was recovered from the location.

County prosecutors are investigating and an autopsy is planned. T he officer involved has been
placed on administrative leave.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Man who called 911 to say he had gun shot, killed - Associated Press
State Wire: New Jersey (NJ) - January 23, 2018
January 23, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New Jersey (NJ)

MILLVILLE, N.J. (AP) — Authorities say a police officer shot and killed a man who had called 911 and
said he was armed with a gun.

No firearm was found after 47-year-old Edward Gandy

Edward Gandy Jr. was killed in Millville on Monday.

T he Cumberland County prosecutor is investigating the shooting and the officer has been placed
on administrative leave.

Officials are awaiting results of an autopsy.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Struggling to make sense of son’s death - Man - South Jersey Times (NJ)
- January 26, 2018 - page A1
January 26, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Rebecca Everett | Page A1

Millville

Catherine Gandy said that Millville police were familiar with her son Edward C. Gandy
his mental health problems from many previous encounters.

Edward C. Gandy Jr., 46, and

T hat’s why she is baffled as to why an officer fatally shot him Monday after he called 911 saying he
had a gun. No gun was recovered, authorities said.

“He wouldn’t hurt anybody,” his mother said. “He never had (a) gun in his life.”

In her living room two blocks from the shooting scene Wednesday, Catherine Gandy said her son
told her he was diagnosed with bipolar disorder and schizophrenia.

When he wasn’t taking medication, his mental health problems led to many run-ins with police, she
said. Sometimes she had to call the cops on him, she said, and he even called them himself if he
felt out of control or suicidal.

About two weeks ago, she said, Gandy pulled a knife in a nearby Wawa store and threatened to kill
himself, she said. Police responded and called his cousin, who calmed him down, she said.

Millville police were the ones who trans

ported him to the hospital, she said, where he stayed in a crisis unit for about a week.

Asked whether she thought her son claimed to have a gun because he was trying to get police to
shoot him — something dubbed “suicide by cop” — Catherine Gandy said she doesn’t believe he
actually wanted to die.

“He was just crying for help,” she said, as he had called before.

Authorities have not confirmed any previous dealings with Gandy, as Millville police are not
authorized to speak about the shooting and Cumberland County Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae
has not commented beyond the initial press release Monday.

Based on the 911 call released T uesday, police had good reason to believe Gandy had a loaded
gun. He told the dispatcher he was “feeling homicidal.”

Gandy called police to the corner of High and McNeal streets, near the Rite Aid that Gandy’s
mother says he frequented.

According to the use of force report released T hursday, Patrolman Colt Gibson was the officer
who fired two shots at Gandy. T he officer said on the form, which is required by the state Attorney
General’s Office every time an officer uses any type of force, Gandy “threatened officer with a
firearm.”

T he report also said Gibson went to the hospital but listed him as uninjured.

Authorities have not said how long officers were on the scene before Gandy was shot, or given
details about what transpired.

Jack Hoban, a retired Marine who trains police departments such as Camden’s in de-escalation,
said he teaches officers that there are ways to avoid shooting a subject, even if one suspects the
person has a gun or sees it in his or her hand. T he first rule is to stay away and behind cover.

But he said there are a lot of unknowns in this case, including whether the officer was so close that
if Gandy did something, perhaps a sudden move toward his pocket, it could make the officer feel
that the only option was to shoot.

“T hat’s why we’ve got to give the cop the benefit of the doubt here. Because the cop has heard he
is homicidal, not suicidal, homicidal, and that he has a gun, he said it numerous times,” said Hoban,
president of Resolution Group International in Sea Girt.

“We don’t know what happened in Millville, but we do know ... the training model is buy yourself
time by taking cover and using space and de-escalate. Get a professional negotiator, de-escalator
person in there to try to talk to the person,” he said. “It doesn’t mean it would work in this
situation.”

T he deadly force incident is rare in recent years in Millville, a city of around 28,000.

Millville police recorded no use-of-force incidents in which officers fired their weapon from the
beginning of 2012 to July of 2017, according to the most recent years available obtained through
an open public records request.

Webb-McRae said the shooting is under investigation and the officer who fired is on administrative
leave.

Public records show Gibson, 33, joined the Millville Police Department in September 2009 and last
year earned a salary of $70,801.

Catherine Gandy said that her son was nicknamed “Eddie Pisghetti” growing up because he was
such a skinny kid. He loved to go fishing and play basketball with his siblings.

“T hose four kids were so close when they were little,” she said. “If someone did something, they’d
stick together and no one would tell me who did it.”

As an adult he worked several jobs, including at a casino and a factory, she said. He lived alone with

three cats on Dock Street.

His mental health issues surfaced when he was 24, she said.

“When he was properly medicated, he’d give you the shirt off his back,” she said. “He’s happy-go-
lucky.”

But if he stopped taking his medication, he was prone to becoming upset and agitated, and
sometimes expressed suicidal thoughts.

She said his doctor, after finding a benign brain tumor, told him to stop taking a bipolar medication
that had been working well. Catherine Gandy said she doesn’t know when that happened or
whether he was prescribed something else, but said his erratic behavior returned.

After the incident with the knife at the Wawa, his mother said, police ordered the family to bring
Gandy’s hunting knife collection to the police station just in case. He was home from the hospital a
week later, she said.

“I just saw him last Saturday. He wanted to walk my dog,” she said.

Late Monday morning, she, said, her sister called and told her something had happened with Gandy
on the corner of High and McNeal streets. On her way out the door, she ran into a friend who said
she had just seen Gandy crying.

Catherine Gandy said she learned later that police had again called Gandy’s cousin to calm him
down like before, but he didn’t arrive in time.

When she got to the intersection, her son had already been taken to a hospital. “I saw police tape,
his wallet, a Rite Aid bag and a little pool of blood,” she said.

She met with police from Millville and Vineland at the hospital and they told her Gandy was dead.

She told them she wanted to kiss him goodbye but wasn’t allowed to see him.

“T hat’s when it hit me hard,” she said.

NJ Advance Media staff writer Craig McCarthy contributed to this report.

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
Authorities: Police kill man who called 911 - South Jersey Times (NJ) -
January 23, 2018 - page A2
January 23, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Rebecca Everett | Page A2

Millville

A Millville police officer shot and killed a city man Monday morning following a call the man made to
911 reporting he had a loaded gun and was at a city intersection, authorities said.

Edward C. Gandy
Edward C. Gandy Jr., 47, of Dock Street, called 911 at 10:47 a.m. and told a dispatcher he had a
loaded gun and was at High and McNeal streets, the Cumberland County Prosecutor’s Office said.

T he office did not provide any details about what transpired when officers responded to Gandy’s
location before and after an officer shot him.

No gun was recovered at the scene, the office said.

T he office also did not give any other details about the nature of Gandy’s call, including whether he
was threatening to harm anyone or himself.

Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae said Monday afternoon she would not comment further on the
incident.

A woman told T he Daily Journal that she heard the gunshots and saw a man lying in the middle of
the street.

In accordance with regular procedures, the prosecutor’s office has initiated a deadly force
investigation and the officer who shot Gandy has been placed on administrative leave, Webb-
McRae said.

Anyone with information about the incident is asked to contact Cumberland County Prosecutor’s
Office Detective Nicholina Pennington at 956-362-0751.

Rebecca Everett, NJ Advance Media, reverett @njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
Man’s march toward cop with a gun led to his - South Jersey Times (NJ) -
February 16, 2018 - page B1
February 16, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Olivia Rizzo | Page B1

millville

Edward C. Gandy
Edward C. Gandy Jr., a man with a history of mental health issues, was pacing in an empty lot at
North High and McNeal streets in Millville when a police sedan pulled up.

Gandy had called the police, told them he had a loaded gun and said, “I’m feeling homicidal.”

When Gandy saw the police car, he started walking toward it. It’s a methodical march that never
stops, according to new dash cam video the Cumberland County Prosecutor’s Office released of
the Jan. 22 event.

Gandy’s hands went behind his back, then stretched out in front of him, as if he planned to shoot
the officer. As Gandy continued his determined walk across the street, closer to the cruiser,
Patrolman Colt Gibson called him by his name and told him to stop and to show his hands.

Gandy’s arms went behind his back again, and this time he motioned as if to take something out of
his back pocket, and then pointed his hands again at the officers as if he has a weapon.

Gibson fired his department-issued rifle and at least two shots rang out. Gandy slumped to the
ground and an officer called for an ambulance.

Millville police are not authorized to speak about the shooting. Cumberland County Prosecutor
Jennifer Webb-McRae has not commented beyond the initial news release.

According to a use-of-force report, Gibson fired two shots at Gandy, saying Gandy had
“threatened officer with a firearm.”

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
Man’s sister: I don’t blame cop who shot him - South Jersey Times (NJ) -
February 18, 2018 - page A1
February 18, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Rebecca Everett | Page A1

cumberland county

Sheila Goldsmith said she will not watch the dashcam video of her brother, Edward C. Gandy
being shot to death by a Millville police officer in January. She said she doesn’t need to see it to trust
that her brother, who was unarmed and has mental health issues, engaged police that day
because he was suicidal.

Edward C. Gandy Jr.,

“T his was his way out. He wanted this to happen,” she said in a phone interview T hursday. It’s not a
view shared by some of her relatives, including her mother.

Goldsmith is mourning her brother but also taking comfort in the feeling that he is no longer
suffering. “He’s at rest. He’s at peace. He had a very hard life,” she said. His family said he was
diagnosed with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.

According to authorities and a released 911 call, Gandy, 46, called 911 and said he had a gun and
was “feeling homicidal.” His family has said police were familiar with Gandy because of previous
incidents related to his mental health issues.

When Officer Colt Gibson’s cruiser pulled up to the intersection of North High and McNeal streets,
Gandy immediately started walking toward him and did not follow Gibson’s orders to show his
hands, according to dashcam footage released last week.

Gibson repeatedly called Gandy by his first name and told him to stop, but he kept moving,
gesturing as if he took something out of his back pocket and then holding his hands in front of him
as though pointing a gun, the video shows. His hands went behind his back again as he got close
to the cruiser and shots rang out, according to the video.

Gibson checked on Gandy within seconds and was putting on latex gloves when an ambulance
pulled up, less than a minute after the shooting, the video shows.

Goldsmith said that she understands why Gibson fired on her brother.

“I’m not upset with the officer at all. I understand the ordeal they have to go through,” she said.
“T hey had no other way around it.”

T he Cumberland County Prosecutor’s Office is investigating the shooting while Gibson remains on
leave, per state guidelines.

Gandy’s mother, Catherine Gandy of Millville, declined to speak with a reporter last week but

previously told NJ Advance Media that police knew Gandy and his issues and should have known he
didn’t really have a gun.

She does not believe he claimed to have a gun in hopes that police would shoot him. She said he
had a history of calling the police when he felt out of control or suicidal, and this was just another
cry for help.

Goldsmith believes Gandy’s mental health issues began when he hit his head when he was about 11
years old. His symptoms worsened when he was in his 20s, she said. Some medications seemed to
help, but some also had negative side effects.

“He’d call me whenever he had a problem, and I could usually calm him down,” she said. If he talked
about suicide, she’d tell him it was not the answer. “He didn’t call me this time,” she said.

Goldsmith left Millville many years ago, but she said Gandy would still call her regularly and always
sent a Christmas card. He had also been battling cancer for several years.

She said that in recent months his symptoms were getting worse and she believed he needed to
be in a behavioral health facility.

Gandy’s relatives agreed that he would never hurt anyone and was only ever a threat to himself.

“He had a very loving heart,” Goldsmith said. “He would always help anyone.”

Rebecca Everett, NJ Advance Media, reverett @njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
Police officer justified in shooting man, - South Jersey Times (NJ) - July
17, 2019 - page 001
July 17, 2019 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Rebecca Everett For South Jersey Times | Page 001

Edward C. Gandy in Millville
State and county officials have concluded the 2018 police shooting of Edward C. Gandy
was justified because Gandy called the police and then purposely held his cellphone to make it look
like a gun, making the officers fear for their lives.

Gandy died from his wounds.

Cumberland County Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae said in a statement Tuesday that there were
no facts in dispute and the state Attorney General’s Office concurred with the decision not to
present the case to a grand jury.

Gandy, 46, had run-ins with police eight times in the months leading up to his death, and told police
and friends that he wanted to kill himself via “suicide by cop,” according to Webb-McRae. Police
took him to the hospital for help at least three times, but he was always discharged,

the prosecutor said.

On the day he died, Jan. 22, 2018, Gandy called 911, said he had a gun and was “feeling homicidal,”
according to the recording of the call.

Officer Colt Gibson was one of three officers who responded to the intersection of North High and
McNeal streets. Gandy immediately started walking towards Gibson with his hands behind him,
according to police dashboard camera footage.

Gibson repeatedly told Gandy to stop but he continued toward police, holding up a cellphone in
both hands in front of him as though pointing a gun, the video shows. His hands went behind his
back again as he got close to the cruiser and shots rang out, according to the video.

Gibson shot him three times, Webb-McRae said.

Gandy’s family said he’d been diagnosed with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, but medications
sometimes helped him feel better. He had been battling cancer for several years and his mental
health had gone down hill in recent months, his sister told NJ Advance Media last year.

Webb-McRae’s statement details several incidents in the months before his death in which police
responded to calls about Gandy, calmed him down, and took him to hospitals for treatment. Each
time he was discharged, Webb-McRae said.

On Nov. 15, 2017, police removed him from a Walgreens and Gandy told them he wanted to
attempt “suicide by cop” and knew police would shoot him if he had a knife, the statement said.

And on Nov. 25, 2017 police found Gandy at a Wawa, holding a knife to his stomach and telling
police to shoot him. He was eventually talked into dropping the knife.

Man killed by police lied about having gun as a cry for help, mom says

T hree days later, Gandy was admitted to Bridgeton Inspira’s crisis unit after another incident at
Walgreens. At that time he said he planned to walk into traffic or assault an officer so they would
shoot him, Webb-McRae said. He was discharged and told to seek outpatient treatment, she said.

Gandy’s sister, Sheila Goldsmith, told NJ Advance Media last year that she doesn’t blame Officer
Gibson for shooting her brother because she believes he was suicidal.

“He’s at rest. He’s at peace. He had a very hard life,” she said.

Rebecca Everett, NJ Advance Media, reverett@njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht 2019 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
Prosecutor: Force justified in '18 shooting - - Press of Atlantic City, The
(NJ) - July 18, 2019 - page 3A
July 18, 2019 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | VINCENT JACKSON Staff Writer | Page 3A

BRIDGET ON - Millville police were justified in the use of force in the January 2018 fatal shooting of
a city man, the Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office said Monday.

Edward Gandy Jr., 47, of Dock Street, on Jan. 22, 2018, at High and McNeal streets.

Police shot Edward Gandy
T hree officers were involved in the shooting, one of whom fired his gun. Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-
McRae did not release the names of the three officers involved.

T he actions and the statement of the officer who shot Gandy demonstrate he was in fear for his
life and believed discharging his weapon was necessary for the protection of himself and the other
officer who was first on the scene, Webb-McRae said.

"T he Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office determined that it is not necessary to present this
matter to the grand jury because there were no material facts in dispute regarding the lawfulness
of the use of force," Webb-McRae said in a statement.

At 10:51 a.m., two officers responded to High and McNeal streets for a report that Gandy was in
the area and was armed with a gun.

At the time the dispatch was received, police, including the officer who fired his gun, were familiar
with Gandy from a recent standoff in which Gandy was armed with a knife and acting erratically.

Gandy had reportedly been involved in other incidents that prompted police response for an
emotionally disturbed person, Webb-McRae said.

Additional records show Gandy was admitted to the crisis unit at Inspira Health Center Bridgeton
on Nov. 15, 25 and 28, 2017, after an incident at the Millville Walgreens.

In the Jan. 22 incident, Gandy contacted 911 and said several times he had a handgun, that the gun
was loaded and that he was "feeling homicidal," Webb-McRae said.

As the two officers approached High and McNeal streets from south on High Street, they
observed Gandy on the northwest corner. A third officer pulled up to the scene behind them and
observed Gandy on the northwest corner.

Almost immediately upon the two officers exiting their vehicle, Gandy started advancing toward
them, walking quickly with his hands behind his back.

As Gandy reached the area near the front of the patrol vehicle, he quickly extended both hands
from behind his back to what is commonly known as a two-handed shooting position, while holding

what appeared to all three officers to be a handgun.

T he object all three officers were referring to and believed was a gun was later determined to be
Gandy's cellphone.

Gandy's actions forced all three officers to duck behind the patrol vehicle for cover, temporarily
losing sight of Gandy, Webb-McRae said.

Gandy continued to advance toward the officers, at which time one of the first two officers on the
scene fired his rifle three times, Webb-McRae said.

An autopsy performed Jan. 23, 2018, determined Gandy's cause of death was multiple gunshot
wounds.

T he Prosecutor's Office investigation consisted of witness interviews, record documentation,
surveillance review, police motor vehicle recording review, and the collection and analysis of
forensic evidence, Webb-McRae said.

Contact : 609-272-7202 VJackson@pressofac.com T witter@ACPressJackson

Copyrig ht, 2019, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 
Shooting by police reviewed - Fatal shooting by - Press of Atlantic City,
The (NJ) - January 23, 2018 - page 1A
January 23, 2018 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | WALDY DIEZ Staff Writer | Page 1A

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="5d9609c8-ffa6-11e7-a3d0-00163ec2aa77"}}

MILLVILLE - A city police officer was involved in a shooting that resulted in the death of a 47-year-
old city man Monday, the Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office said.

An autopsy will be conducted on Edward C. Gandy
Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae said in a statement she released late Monday afternoon.

Edward C. Gandy Jr., of Dock Street, and the results are pending,

T he officer involved in the shooting, whose name was not released, was placed on administrative
leave, Webb-McRae said.

At about 10:47 a.m., a report came in that Gandy had a loaded firearm at High and McNeal
streets, Webb-McRae said. Police responded to the area and located Gandy.

An officer-involved shooting took place, and Gandy was shot and later pronounced dead, Webb-
McRae said.

No firearm was recovered at the location, Webb-McRae said. T he Vineland Police Department
Crime Scene Unit assisted at the scene.

Jesse T ompkins, 36, of Millville, told T he Press of Atlantic City at the scene he heard gunshots and
when he looked in the street, he saw one person had been shot.

"It's sad that at 10:40 a.m on a Monday morning that someone would get gunned down on High
Street," T omkins said.

"I heard three gunshots. I look over and a man's lying in the middle of a street. Otherwise, it's a
beautiful day, the sun came out," Tompkins said.

He said he had pulled into the parking lot of the Rite Aid drug store when the incident happened.

"I asked a guy, 'Is that a gunshot?' I look over there and see a fellow lying on the yellow line,"
T omkins said.

An ambulance came and took the man in the street to the hospital, he said.

"I don't know if he survived. It's sad because Millville's got its issues. T his doesn't help it. I'm
hometown. I was born here. And this is a bad neighborhood as far as neighborhoods go," T omkins
said.

Margaret Shope, 53, of Port Elizabeth, said she was shaken by the shooting.

"Millville is out of control. I don't want to come to Millville at night because it's not safe," Shope
said.

Shope said she did not see what happened.

A Use of Deadly Force Investigation is being conducted by the Cumberland County Prosecutor's
Office per the New Jersey attorney general's July 28, 2015, Supplemental Directive Regarding
Uniform Statewide Procedures and Best Practices for Conducting Police Use of Force
Investigations, Webb-McRae said.

Anyone with information can contact Cumberland Prosecutor's Office Detective Nicholina
Pennington at 856-362-0751.

Last week, a state investigation into the Feb. 10, 2017, shooting death of Darryl Fuqua, 23, by a
Bridgeton police officer determined the use of deadly force was legally justified and the officer
shot the man as an act of self defense.

Staff Writer Vincent Jackson contributed to this report.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 
Prosecutors: Police officer justified in fatal - Associated Press State Wire:
New Jersey (NJ) - July 17, 2019
July 17, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: New Jersey (NJ)

MILLVILLE, N.J. (AP) — Authorities say a police officer was justified in fatally shooting a man who
had called 911 to report he was armed with a gun and "feeling homicidal."

Edward
Cumberland County prosecutors made the determination in the January 2018 shooting of Edward
Gandy
Gandy in Millville, noting that no facts were in dispute. T hey say the state Attorney General's Office
concurred with the decision.

When three Millville officers arrived on scene, authorities say Gandy started walking toward officer
Colt Gibson with his hands behind him. Gibson repeatedly told Gandy to stop, but Gandy continued
toward the officers, holding up a cellphone in both hands in front of him as though pointing a gun.

Gandy was soon shot and killed. No gun was found.

Relatives have said Gandy was dealing with mental health issues.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
Sister: Man shot by police thought 'This was his - Associated Press State
Wire: New Jersey (NJ) - February 17, 2018
February 17, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New Jersey (NJ)

MILLVILLE, N.J. (AP) — T he sister of a man shot and killed by police in New Jersey last month says
her brother engaged police that day because he was suicidal.

Edward
NJ.com reports that Sheila Goldsmith said in a phone interview that she is mourning Edward
Gandy Jr. but takes comfort in the feeling that he is no longer suffering.
Gandy

Goldsmith said she doesn't blame the officer. She said "T his was his way out. He wanted this to
happen."

T he family has said Gandy was diagnosed with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Cumberland
County prosecutors said he called 911, said he had a loaded gun and gave a Millville location. After
he was shot, no firearm was recovered.

Gandy's mother has said police were familiar with Gandy and should have known he didn't have a
gun.

___

Information from: NJ.com, http://www.nj.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

Area man is dead after Maine shooting - Telegraph, The (Nashua, NH) -
November 30, 2018
November 30, 2018 | Telegraph, The (Nashua, NH) | Dean Shalhoup

OLD T OWN, Maine – Published reports indicate Adrian B unker
T hursday morning when gunfire erupted moments after an Old T own police officer stopped the
man's truck on Stillwater Avenue.

Adrian B unker, 37, of Merrimack, was killed early

Bunker died in what police describe as an "armed confrontation" with officer Joseph Decoteau, but
they didn't release any details of what may have led to the gunfire.

Online reports by the Bangor Daily News and Portland Press Herald indicate Decoteau performed
a traffic stop on the Chevy Silverado pickup truck Bunker was driving at about 3:20 a.m.

T he armed confrontation then took place between the men, during which Bunker was killed.
Decoteau was not injured, the reports said.

Decoteau was placed on paid administrative leave pending an internal review of the shooting, the
Daily News reported.

T he section of Stillwater Avenue where the incident took place is about a mile east of Interstate 95
and two miles north of the University of Maine campus, in neighboring Orono.

Police closed a section of Stillwater Avenue through the afternoon as local and state police, as well
as officials representing the Maine Attorney General's Office, arrived at the scene.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Teleg raph, Nashua, N.H. All Rights Reserved.

 

New Hampshire man fatally shot by Old Town police - Kennebec Journal
(Augusta, ME) - November 29, 2018
November 29, 2018 | Kennebec Journal (Augusta, ME) | Matt Byrne

A New Hampshire man was shot and killed by an Old T own Police officer early Thursday .

Adrian B unker
Adrian B unker, 37, of Merrimack, N.H., was driving a gray Chevy Silverado pickup truck when he
was pulled over by an officer around 3:20 a.m. on Stillwater Avenue, near Pembroke Drive.

"T his stop led to an armed confrontation which led to the death of the driver,"Old T own Police
Chief Scott Wilcox told reporters during a news conference.

News Center Maine (WCSH-T V) said Bunker was shot and killed by Old T own Police officer Joseph
Decoteau.

As is standard procedure in police-involved shootings, Decoteau has been placed on paid
administrative leave pending the outcome of an investigation by the Maine Attorney General's
Office, which investigates all police shootings in the state.

Decoteau has been with the department since December 2017.

Old T own police said no officers were injured in the shooting.

Stillwater Avenue was closed for about nine hours, but has since reopened.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.

 

 
 

Police officer involved in fatal shooting returns - Associated Press State
Wire: Maine (ME) - January 9, 2019
January 9, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Maine (ME)

OLD T OWN, Maine (AP) — A Maine police officer involved in a shooting that left a New Hampshire
man dead has returned to work while the public still waits to hear details of the shooting.

Officials say Old T own Police Officer Joseph Decoteau was involved in the Nov. 29 shooting that
left 37-year-old Adrian B unker
many details about the shooting, and authorities have not specified if Decoteau shot Bunker.

Adrian Bunker dead. T he Bangor Daily News reports police have still not released

T he shooting remains under investigation by the Maine Office of the Attorney General and the Old
T own Police Department. Decoteau was on paid administrative leave for about a month after the
shooting.

___

Information from: Bangor Daily News, http://www.bangordailynews.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 

 
An Old Town police officer has returned to work after he engaged in an armed confrontation on Nov. 29 that left a

New Hampshire man dead. 

Authorities still have not released many details about the death of 37-year-old Adrian Bunker, who was killed early

that morning after Officer Joseph Decoteau stopped his pickup truck on Stillwater Avenue. 

[New Hampshire man killed after an armed confrontation with Old Town police] 

The Old Town officer was placed on paid administrative leave, which is standard protocol after officer-involved

shootings in Maine. 

Department said this week. 

Almost a month later, on Dec. 22, Decoteau resumed his normal patrols, Chief Scott Wilcox of the Old Town Police

So far, authorities have not specifically said that Decoteau shot Bunker. 

The shooting remains under investigation by the Maine Office of the Attorney General and the Old Town Police

Department. Such investigations are also routine after officer-involved shootings. 

[How Maine police shootings are investigated] 

Wilcox declined to speak about the shooting this week, referring many questions to the Office of the Attorney

General. 

That office's investigation is meant to determine whether police were legally justified in using lethal force. The

findings have always been the same: In more than 100 reviews of police use of deadly force since 1990, the office

has never found that an officer should face criminal charges. 

Brian MacMaster, the office's chief of investigations, declined to comment on the Old Town shooting this week. 

"We do not comment on pending investigations," he wrote in an email. 

The Old Town Police Department has also convened a local panel to review the shooting, but Wilcox has yet to

receive its findings, the chief said Tuesday. 

Police and an Old Town resident. 

That panel includes a chief and a firearms instructor from other police agencies, a member of the Maine State

"That panel has met, but I don't have the report," Wilcox said, adding that he does not know when to expect it. 

Police said that Decoteau go into the fatal confrontation with Bunker after stopping his Silverado pickup truck

around 3:20 a.m. Nov. 29. They still have not given a reason for the traffic stop. 

Decoteau first joined the Old Town department in December 2017. 

Relatives of Bunker have not responded to requests for an interview. 

Though he lived in Merrimack, New Hampshire, at the time of his death, he was raised in Cambridge, Maine, a

Somerset County town that's about 30 miles north of Newport, according to his obituary. 

In the obituary, Bunker's family described him as "an extremely intelligent person who was able to work proficiently

at anything he put his mind to, as a mechanic, a carpenter, an electrician, and even a cook. He was amazing with

numbers and if you told him your social security number once 20 years ago he was able to recite it." 

The obituary also said that Bunker "loved his family" and had a brother who died earlier in 2018. 

"He will be remembered by his infectious laugh, his sense of humor, and his willingness to always help anyone who

needed him," the obituary reads. "Anyone Adrian met would instantly like him and become his friend." 

Shootings; Attorneys general; Criminal investigations; Deadly force

Credit: Charles Eichacker BDN Staff 
 
 

Merrimack man killed in - officer-involved - New Hampshire Union
Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) - November 29,
2018 - page 004
November 29, 2018 | New Hampshire Union Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) |
KIMBERLY HOUGHTON Union Leader Correspondent | Page 004

MERRIMACK — A local man was killed during an officer-involved shooting early Thursday morning
in Maine.

Authorities have identified the man as Adrian B unker

Adrian B unker, 37, of Merrimack.

According to the Bangor Daily News, the shooting occurred before 3:30 a.m. Thursday during a
traffic stop near Stillwater Avenue in Old T own, Maine.

Bunker’s gray Silverado pickup truck was pulled over when an armed confrontation took place
between Bunker and Officer Joseph Decoteau of the Old T own Police Department.

Bunker was killed during the confrontation. Decoteau was not injured. Details of what took place
during the traffic stop have not been released. T he Maine Attorney General’s office is investigating
the shooting.

T he Bangor Daily News, reported Decoteau has been placed on paid administrative leave pending
a review by the department, which is protocol for an officer-involved shooting.

In an online statement from the Old T own Police Department, a portion of Stillwater Avenue was
closed for about seven hours on Thursday while police investigated.

“T here is no risk to the public,” said the department.

Although Bunker lived in Merrimack, he was from Cambridge, Maine, and attended Piscataquis
Community High School in Guilford, Maine.

According to his Facebook page, Bunker was previously enrolled at the Motorcycle Mechanics
Institute, and had most recently been employed at Hitachi Cable America Inc.

Online phone records indicate that Bunker resided at 75 Patten Road.

T he officer involved in the shooting, Decoteau, is relatively new to the police force in Maine.

According to a previous post on the police department’s Facebook page, Decoteau graduated
from the Maine Criminal Justice Academy in May of this year, ranking second in his class.

NashuaNews@unionleader.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, Union Leader Corp.

 

 
Nov. 29--By Eesha Pendharkar, BDN Staff --November 29, 2018 7:49 am 

Updated: November 29, 2018 4:44 pm 

in Bunker's death. 

by law enforcement. 

department. 

A New Hampshire man was killed early Thursday morning following an armed confrontation on Stillwater Avenue

with the Old Town police officer who pulled over his vehicle, according to Chief of Police Scott Wilcox. 

Officer Joseph Decoteau ordered Adrian Bunker, 37, of Merrimack, New Hampshire, to pull over his gray Silverado

pickup truck around 3:20 a.m. According to the police department, the "armed confrontation" that ensued resulted

Decoteau is on paid administrative leave pending a review by the department, according to the police chief, and the

Maine attorney general's office is investigating the shooting as it does in all cases involving the use of deadly force

Decoteau has been with the Old Town Police Department since Dec. 11, 2017, according to the department. He

graduated from the Maine Criminal Justice Academy in May 2018, according to a Facebook post from the police

During a news conference Thursday afternoon at the Old Town Police Department, Wilcox did not say why

Decoteau initially pulled over Bunker's vehicle, and he did not offer further details about the incident. 

A number of residents in the area described hearing a commotion early in the morning. 

Hannah Berrios, a 21-year-old University of Maine student who lives at 840 Stillwater Ave., said she woke up to a

police officer yelling outside her home around 3:30 a.m. 

"I woke up to them just yelling, 'Drop your weapon, drop your weapon,'" she said. 

When she looked out the window, she saw the officer yelling at a pickup truck stopped on the side of the road. She

said she didn't want to spend much time looking out the window, but she heard the officer yelling for about 15

minutes. 

"I was a little nervous," she said. 

She said she never saw the driver leave his vehicle. 

before in my life." 

"Fifteen minutes later, I heard, like, a pop," she said. "I didn't really know what it was. I've never heard a gunshot

An ambulance arrived at the scene shortly afterward, and a detective came by later in the morning, around 6:30

a.m., to ask Berrios about what she had witnessed. 

Doug Beckerleg, who lives at 822 Stillwater Ave., said police were on the road throughout the morning. 

Around 9 a.m., he said he saw a hearse pull up, and authorities wheel a body from the ambulance to the hearse. 

"He was in a red body bag," Beckerleg said. "They took him out of the ambulance, they put him on a gurney, and

they pulled him right down the middle of the road and put him in the hearse and took him away." 

Bill Cooley, who lives in an apartment at 812 Stillwater Ave., said he heard a shot at some point between 3 and 4

a.m. 

"I heard a pistol shot, then I heard some sirens," Cooley, 62, said. 

The sirens did not last long, he said, which made him think they were from ambulances passing through. Cooley

said he left his house shortly before 5 a.m. to find the street blocked off. 

"It's a terrible thing, obviously," he said. "I'm from big cities, and I can't honestly describe myself as shocked." 

Police closed off a 0.7-mile stretch of Stillwater Avenue for the entire morning, and investigators from the Maine

attorney general's office were on the scene as well as officers from multiple area law enforcement agencies. A

major artery through Old Town, the stretch includes Governor's Restaurant, McDonald's, a cemetery, a Maine

Savings Federal Credit Union, a number of other businesses and residences. 

Police reopened the road around 12:15 p.m. 

With the road closed, the school day got off to a disjointed start for students from the Pine Haven mobile home

park, located off the closed portion of Stillwater Avenue. 

Some students from the mobile home park waited for their school bus near Pembroke Drive, where police

barricades closed off the road, said Cpl. Ryan Fitch of the Penobscot County Sheriff's Office. The bus picked up

those students, but did not pick up students waiting at the mobile home park. Fitch said police alerted Cyr Bus

Line, the school bus contractor for Regional School Unit 34, about those students, and a bus returned to the area

to pick them up. 

Bangor-area Community Connector service in the area was also interrupted for several hours, the bus service said. 

A spokeswoman for the Maine attorney general's office confirmed that two investigators were on the scene. 

BDN writer Christopher Burns contributed to this report. 

Correction: An earlier version of this report misidentified the law enforcement agency for which Cpl. Ryan Fitch

works. 

CREDIT: By Eesha Pendharkar 
 
 


 
Publication: The Main Campus, University of Maine, Orono ME. 

A New Hampshire man was killed after an armed confrontation with police in Old Town in the early hours of the

morning of Nov. 29.  

Officer Joseph Decoteau ordered Adrian Bunker, 37, of Merrimack, New Hampshire, to pull over his gray Silverado

pickup truck around 3:20 a.m., according to the Bangor Daily News.  

In the ensuing incident, which is still under investigation, Decoteau shot and killed Bunker.  

At around 6 a.m., students at the University of Maine received an emergency text alert to seek an alternative route

to class if traveling from Stillwater Avenue in Old Town between the Hannaford Plaza and College Avenue.  

A post on the Old Town Police Department Facebook page made around 6 a.m. said a 0.7-mile stretch of road

surrounding both sides of Pembroke Drive would be closed down until further notice. Officers assured that there

Around 1 p.m., OTPD updated its Facebook page to say that the incident had been resolved and the section of

Stillwater Avenue between the Pine Haven Mobile Home Community and Hannaford shopping complex would be

Decoteau has been placed on paid administrative leave pending an official investigation by OTPD and the Maine

was “no risk to the public.”  

reopened.  

Attorney General’s Office.  

According to a Facebook post from OTPD, Decoteau is from Douglas, Massachusetts, and graduated from the

Maine Criminal Justice Academy in Vassalboro in May of this year, finishing second in his class.  
 
 

New Hampshire man fatally shot by Old Town police - Portland Press
Herald/Maine Sunday Telegram (ME) - November 29, 2018
November 29, 2018 | Portland Press Herald/Maine Sunday Telegram (ME) | Matt ByrneStaff Writer

A New Hampshire man was shot and killed by an Old T own Police officer early Thursday .

Adrian B unker
Adrian B unker, 37, of Merrimack, N.H., was driving a gray Chevy Silverado pickup truck when he
was pulled over by an officer around 3:20 a.m. on Stillwater Avenue, near Pembroke Drive.

"T his stop led to an armed confrontation which led to the death of the driver,"Old T own Police
Chief Scott Wilcox told reporters during a news conference.

News Center Maine (WCSH-T V) said Bunker was shot and killed by Old T own Police officer Joseph
Decoteau.

As is standard procedure in police-involved shootings, Decoteau has been placed on paid
administrative leave pending the outcome of an investigation by the Maine Attorney General's
Office, which investigates all police shootings in the state.

Decoteau has been with the department since December 2017.

Old T own police said no officers were injured in the shooting.

Stillwater Avenue was closed for about nine hours, but has since reopened.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Blethen Maine Newspapers Inc.

 


 
By Anthony M. DeStefano     

anthony.destefano@newsday.com   

The Queens woman shot dead by NYPD officers Monday was the subject of nine police calls for assistance since

2000, including one for emotional disturbance, just a week before she lost her life, officials said.  

Susan Muller, 54, lunged at officers with a knife inside a two-family home on 69th Street in Maspeth after they

responded to a 911 call of a burglary at the residence, police said. Investigators believe Muller made the 911 call

before the shooting.  

Although some of the cops from three Queens precincts who responded to the call were wearing body cameras,

the shooting was only captured in the audio portion of the recordings, officials said, because video from the body

cameras was obscured by the torsos of officers as they moved inside the home.  

One of the cops was heard telling Muller to "drop the knife," at which point a female voice is heard screaming in the

moment before officers fire three shots, officials said. The victim, who was struck multiple times in the torso, died

at the scene despite CPR efforts by officers. A 10-inch knife was recovered at the scene, police said.  

"This was very, very quick," said one police official of the confrontation. Police said one of the responding officers

had conflict-intervention training.  

The NYPD didn't identify the officers involved in the shooting but said they came from the 110th, 111th and 114th

precincts. Cops from the 104th Precinct, which patrols the area where the shooting occurred, were involved in the

funeral of a fellow officer from the precinct so neighboring commands responded, officials said.  

According to police, there were nine calls for assistance from August 2000 to this month that involved Muller.

Three were domestic calls and three were for intoxication, officials said. One call was about an animal and two

calls were about an emotionally disturbed person. The last call about an emotional disturbance on Sept. 9, ended

with Muller transported to a hospital where she was treated and released, officials said.  

Police said the NYPD force investigation division was conducting an in-depth probe into the shooting. While the

NYPD has in the past year released body camera video of other police shootings, a legal dispute is preventing

further releases, officials sai 

CREDIT: Anthony M. DeStefano/anthony.destefano@newsday.com anthony.destefano@newsday.com 
 
 


 
The police had visited the home of a Queens woman nine times over the past two decades before she was fatally

shot by an officer on Monday, police officials said. The most recent encounter was earlier this month when she

was said to be acting irrationally. 

On Monday, when the woman, Susan Muller, 54, called the police to report an armed burglar in her home, officers

from the local precinct where her troubles were most known were away mourning a colleague who died last week.

The four officers who responded were from three nearby precincts helping out, and it was unclear if they had asked

or been told by dispatchers about the history of police calls to the home, the police said. 

Officials released more details about the encounter on Tuesday as the investigation continued and questions

swirled about the police response. 

The police had responded to nine 911 calls to the home since August 2000, officials said. Four of the incidents

involved domestic violence, and three other times were about someone being intoxicated. Twice Ms. Muller was

acting irrationally, the police said, including the most recent incident on Sept. 9, when she was taken to a hospital

for treatment. 

On Monday, her call to 911 was a lure, the police said. Ms. Muller, who identified herself as the caller, lunged at the

responding officers with a 10-inch kitchen knife inside the home at 52-14 69th Street in Maspeth, officials said.

One of the officers fatally shot her in the chest, according to the police. 

Edward Rogers, Ms. Muller's partner for the past five years and a retired police officer, said she had been drinking

and asked him for a ride home on Monday from Grand Avenue in Flushing. When he arrived to pick her up, he said,

"she was acting like a lunatic talking to everyone on the street." 

Once at her house, things got worse. 

"She started yelling, 'I hate you!' So I left," Mr. Rogers said. "Thirty minutes later she was dead." 

Officials said police body cameras did not capture much of what happened inside the home, including the

shooting, but did record the sound. An officer's voice can be heard summoning her to the back of the apartment,

police officials said. Within seconds, a woman shrieks and an officer can be heard saying, "Drop the knife!" Then,

three gunshots rang out: "Bang, bang, bang," a police official said. 

None of the officers were hurt or have been involved in a shooting before, according to the police. 

Officials did not disclose the officers' names, but said that only one of the officers had specialized training for

handling people in mental or emotional crisis. 

Neighbors described previous occasions when they detected signs of heavy drinking, like the smell of alcohol on

Ms. Muller's breath or beer cans left on her porch. They also described often hearing loud disputes between the

couple. 

Young Kim, 62, a neighbor, said she often heard loud arguments coming from Ms. Muller's apartment and saw

ambulances take her away from time to time. 

"She a sick person," said Ms. Kim, who was angry that the police used deadly force. "She was depressed, walked

with head down, like a zombie." 

Fighting back tears, Mr. Rogers described Ms. Muller as "a very nice person, a very sweet girl, but if she picked up a

drink her personality changed. She couldn't have a drink, then all bets are off." 

He said that despite their fierce arguments she had never raised any kind of a weapon at him. Nor had she ever

spoken of physically harming anyone associated with the police, he added. 

"I can't understand how she would do something like that to a police officer when she was living with me and we

were living off a police pension," he said. 

Credit: ASHLEY SOUTHALL and NATE SCHWEBER; Susan C. Beachy contributed research. 

Photograph 

The police at a home in Maspeth, Queens, where they said Susan Muller had called 911, then lunged at officers

with a knife. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES); Susan Muller 
 
 


 
The police had visited the home of a Queens woman nine times over the past two decades before she was fatally

shot by an officer on Monday, police officials said. The most recent encounter was earlier this month when she

was said to be acting irrationally. 

On Monday, when the woman, Susan Muller, 54, called the police to report an armed burglar in her home, officers

from the local precinct where her troubles were most known were away mourning a colleague who died last week .

The four officers who responded were from three nearby precincts helping out, and it was unclear if they had asked

or been told by dispatchers about the history of police calls to the home, the police said. 

Officials released more details about the encounter on Tuesday as the investigation continued and questions

swirled about the police response. 

The police had responded to nine 911 calls to the home since August 2000, officials said. Four of the incidents

involved domestic violence, and three other times were about someone being intoxicated. Twice Ms. Muller was

acting irrationally, the police said, including the most recent incident on Sept. 9, when she was taken to a hospital

for treatment. 

On Monday, her call to 911 was a lure, the police said. Ms. Muller, who identified herself as the caller, lunged at the

responding officers with a 10-inch kitchen knife inside the home at 52-14 69th Street in Maspeth, officials said.

One of the officers fatally shot her in the chest, according to the police. 

Edward Rogers, Ms. Muller’s partner for the past five years and a retired police officer, said she had been drinking

and asked him for a ride home on Monday from Grand Avenue in Flushing. When he arrived to pick her up, he said,

“she was acting like a lunatic talking to everyone on the street.” 

Once at her house, things got worse. 

“She started yelling, ‘I hate you!’ So I left,” Mr. Rogers said. “Thirty minutes later she was dead.” 

Officials said police body cameras did not capture much of what happened inside the home, including the

shooting, but did record the sound. An officer’s voice can be heard summoning her to the back of the apartment,

police officials said. Within seconds, a woman shrieks and an officer can be heard saying, “Drop the knife!” Then,

three gunshots rang out: “Bang, bang, bang,” a police official said. 

None of the officers were hurt or have been involved in a shooting before, according to the police. 

Officials did not disclose the officers’ names, but said that only one of the officers had specialized training for

handling people in mental or emotional crisis. 

Neighbors described previous occasions when they detected signs of heavy drinking, like the smell of alcohol on

Ms. Muller’s breath or beer cans left on her porch. They also described often hearing loud disputes between the

couple. 

Young Kim, 62, a neighbor, said she often heard loud arguments coming from Ms. Muller’s apartment and saw

ambulances take her away from time to time. 

with head down, like a zombie.” 

“She a sick person,” said Ms. Kim, who was angry that the police used deadly force. “She was depressed, walked

Fighting back tears, Mr. Rogers described Ms. Muller as “a very nice person, a very sweet girl, but if she picked up a

drink her personality changed. She couldn’t have a drink, then all bets are off.” 

He said that despite their fierce arguments she had never raised any kind of a weapon at him. Nor had she ever

spoken of physically harming anyone associated with the police, he added. 

“I can’t understand how she would do something like that to a police officer when she was living with me and we

were living off a police pension,” he said. 

Credit: Ashley Southall and Nate Schweber 
 
 


 
By   anthony m. destefano 

anthony.destefano@newsday.com   

The NYPD officer who shot and killed an apparently emotionally disturbed woman in Queens Monday first pulled

out a stun gun before using his firearm instead, department officials said Thursday.  

Since the officer who fired the fatal shots had not yet been interviewed, it was unclear why he chose not use the

Taser before opening fire and killing Susan Muller, 54, said Deputy Chief Kevin Maloney, head of the NYPD force

investigation unit, during a news media briefing.  

Since 2000, there had been nine requests for assistance at Muller's residence, including for domestic disturbance,

intoxication, emotional disturbance and a complaint about an animal.  

Officers responded Sunday to Muller's home at 52-14 69th St. in Maspeth after she made a 911 call about a burglar

inside. After officers from three commands arrived, they searched the residence but didn't find a burglar. At that

point, Maloney said, one of the officers asked Muller if she was certain she had seen someone.  

As the officer questioned Muller, she approached him carrying a knife and ignored his command to drop it,

Maloney said. The officer initially had the Taser out but then displayed his firearm. He told Muller again to drop the

knife, the deputy chief said, before firing, hitting her three times in the torso. Cops gave Muller CPR but she was

pronounced dead at the scene, according to the NYPD.  

Police said some of the officers had body cameras activated but that while there is audio of the deadly encounter,

video images didn't capture the shooting. The investigation is continuing, Maloney said. 

CREDIT: Anthony M. DeStefano/anthony.destefano@newsday.com anthony.destefano@newsday.com 
 
 


 
Again, a New Yorker in emotional distress lies dead with NYPD bullets in her body. 

Again, questions burn about how responding officers handled a threatening situation, concerning the 50 seconds it

took for Susan Muller to pull out a knife, lunge at police and then fall to a fusillade in her Maspeth, Queens, home. 

If officers had good reason to believe they or anyone else faced a threat to their lives, shooting in defense was

justified. 

But it is a shame of the city that police are again forced to act as last responders for mental health problems that

are far more properly and peacefully handled earlier by better-equipped people and institutions. 

So it was with Deborah Danner, and Dwayne Jeune, and Miguel Richardson, and Saheed Vassell. 

Years ago, Mayor de Blasio and Police Commissioner Jimmy O'Neill committed to expanding a four-day crisis

intervention training to every last officer. They have only now finished training sergeants and lieutenants, and

barely more than one in four cops; it'll take another six years to finish the job. (One of the four officers on the scene

at Muller's home was so trained.) 

On the other hand, in response to an Inspector General report last year flagging troubles getting specially trained

cops to scenes of mental health meltdowns, the NYPD stressed that all officers already have sufficient Police

Which is it, mayor and commissioner: Is more training urgently necessary or utterly superfluous? 

Our humble opinion, as New Yorkers who don't walk the beat: train every front-line cop, for when an individual falls

A mayoral task force now hard at work aims at the right idea: Far, far, far better to ensure that there are fewer

cracks in the first place.Get psychiatrists and social workers to do their jobs as soon, and as well, as humanly

Academy training. 

through every crack. 

possible. 
 
 


 
The boyfriend of the knife-wielding Queens woman shot dead by police doesn't blame the officers involved. 

Susan Muller, 54, called 911 to report a burglary at 5:25 p.m. Monday. When cops arrived, she allegedly lunged at

them with a 10-inch blade and they opened fire, killing her. 

"It shouldn't be a story about trigger-happy cops. it should be a story about the abuse and use of alcohol," Muller's

boyfriend, Ed Rogers, said Tuesday. "I can't say that (if police should have hesitated more) because I wasn't there.

It was so out of character for her to take a knife to someone. It's like, they have to make a split-second decision.

And if they see a woman with a knife, or a crazy person, they wanna go home." 

Rogers, a retired NYPD sergeant who left the force in 1996, says he shot and killed an armed man who held up a

bodega back in 1966.  

happened, that's for sure," Rogers recalled. 

"For me, the decision was either him and the bodega (guy), or him and I. It affected me - I wasn't happy about what

He said he understands what the officers faced. "I know what they have to do. And I know what I did," he said. "And

I also know that I was taught your main job is to come home safe." 

Rogers, 75, claims his girlfriend's boozing contributed to the deadly confrontation. 

"If she didn't use alcohol, this incident never would've happened. So don't blame the Police Department. She was a

beautiful person," he said. 

source said. 

In her 911 call, Muller said there was a white woman with a knife and a razor in her home on 69th St. near 52nd

Road in Maspeth. Police were searching for the intruder when Muller seized the knife and went toward them, a

"I can't see Susan doing this, but if that's what they said she did - they're not gonna lie," Rogers said. 
 
 


 
NYPD cops fatally shot a woman who lunged at them with a knife inside a Queens home Monday evening,

according to law-enforcement sources. 

Susan Muller called police to report a burglary in progress, led officers into the home on 69th Street near 52nd

Road in Maspeth at around 6 p.m., and then pulled a knife on them, the sources said. 

"The 54-year old woman came at the officers with a knife and lunged at them," NYPD Chief of Detectives Dermont

Shea said. 

"One of the officers gave direction to put the knife down. We know this because there was body-camera video. 

"Subsequently, one officer discharges his service weapon three times, striking the female in the torso." 

Muller lived with her boyfriend, a retired NYPD sergeant, neighbors said. 

"Easygoing," one neighbor said of the boyfriend, "you couldn't get into an argument with him if you tried." 

CREDIT: Tina Moore , Larry Celona , and Joe Marino 
 
 



 
YORK, Pa. (AP) - A prosecutor has ruled that a central Pennsylvania police officer was justified in shooting and

killing a man following a confrontation in a church parking lot.  

Twenty-seven-year-old Gregory Stough was shot Jan. 6 by a Northern York County Regional Police officer outside

Stillmeadow Church of Nazarene in Manchester. Authorities said he refused to comply with police commands and

then used his car to trap another officer, forcing him backward at high speed toward another vehicle.  

York County District Attorney Dave Sunday said the other officer was trapped between the car and the door and

"within seconds" of either slamming into another vehicle or falling and being run over, at which point the regional

officer fired 14 times.  

Sunday said a state police investigation "clearly indicates" that deadly force was warranted.  

Credit: By JAY REEVES and REBECCA SANTANA, Associated Press 
 
 


 
A 27-year-old man was killed in a police-involved shooting Saturday morning after striking an officer with his

vehicle in a church parking lot, according to state police. 

Gregory Stough, of the 200 block of Dicks Dam Road in New Oxford, was pronounced dead at the scene at 4:24

a.m., according to York County Coroner Pam Gay. 

Pennsylvania State Police Public Information Officer Brent Miller said Northern York County Regional Police

officers initially were checking out a suspicious vehicle in the parking lot of Stillmeadow Church of the Nazarene

on Stillmeadow Lane, near Susquehanna Trail, in Manchester Township. 

An officer made contact with Stough in his Pontiac Bonneville around 3:21 a.m. The officer discovered Stough was

wanted on four traffic warrants related to vehicle inspections. Stough also had a suspended driver's license, police

said. 

vehicle." 

A second officer arrived to help take Stough into custody. Stough resisted arrest, and during the struggle, he put

his car in reverse with the driver's door still open, police said. He accelerated backwards, trapping the second

officer between the door and the car. 

According to police, Stough continued driving in reverse and "propelled the officer violently into a parked police

The first officer opened fire. Stough put the car in drive and traveled toward the officer who was firing at him,

police said, before being fatally wounded. 

One Northern York County Regional Police Officer suffered minor injuries during the incident. The second officer,

who fired his pistol at Stough, is on administrative leave. 

State police are investigating, which is the protocol for a police-involved shooting. The York County Coroner's

Office and District Attorney's Office are also investigating. 

An autopsy will be scheduled at Lehigh Valley Hospital. 

Family members said Saturday they weren't sure why Stough was at the church parking lot, but his father

speculated his son might have been out drinking in the area. Stough might tried to stay with some family who lived

near the church, but then tried to "sleep it off" in the parking lot. 

Stough had some trouble with the law and with drinking but had recently been trying to turn himself around

because he has daughters, according to his sister. 

This is the second week in a row that Northern York County Regional Police used deadly force. 

An officer responding to a 911 call in Dover Township fatally shot Isaiah Christian Green, 21, on Dec. 28 after Green

approached the officer with an AR-15 rifle, police said. 

That case remains under investigation. 

More inside 

Church statement 

Family of man shot by police 'trying to piece it together.' 8A 

Stillmeadow Church of the Nazarene issued the following statement Saturday morning: 

"As the media has reported, a life was lost. As a church family, we continue to recognize the brokenness of our

world. Today, we are again reminded of that brokenness. Jesus remains the Prince of Peace and gives peace no

matter the circumstances. We are calling on all to be in prayer as we process this together." 

A law enforcement officer walks outside of Stillmeadow Church of the Nazarene in Manchester Township on

CAPTION:  

Saturday. 

Chris Dunn/York Daily Record 
 
 


 
The man shot and killed by Northern York County Regional Police in a church parking lot early Saturday morning

had his run-ins with the law, but he was trying to make changes, his family said. 

Wayne Stough Jr. said he called his son, Gregory Stough, 27, on Saturday to make plans to see each other. 

"I just tried to call him because he was going to bring his girls by for their Christmas presents," Stough said,

referring to Gregory's daughters. "Then, 10 minutes later, my ex (Gregory Stough's mother) called me." 

She told him their son had died. He had been shot by Northern York County Regional Police in the parking lot of

Stillmeadow Church of Nazarene. 

police. 

Stough said his family has a lot of questions about what happened that led to his son being shot and killed by

He said his son was in the area to visit family who live near the church, but they weren't home. Stough speculated

that his son might have been out drinking and decided to "sleep it off" in the church parking lot. He emphasized

that police did not say that's what had happened. 

Stough said his son struggled with alcohol abuse. 

Keesha Wolfe, Gregory Stough's older sister, said her brother's problems with alcohol and his legal trouble were the

reason they had grown apart until recently, when they started to rebuild their relationship. 

"My brother has been in a lot of trouble," Wolfe said. "He's been in trouble, but he's straightened up." 

Wolfe, of Hagerstown, Maryland, cried as she talked about how she grew up with her brother in the Spring Grove

area, but how as adults they grew apart. Recently, the two were growing close again, she said. 

"He was a good dad, his kids meant everything for him," Wolfe said. "He made a lot of changes in his life for his

girls." 

She remembered how he told her his plans for the future when they saw each other at Thanksgiving. 

The last time Wolfe saw Gregory was on Christmas when they gathered at their father's house. "It was normal," she

said. "He was normal. He had a clear head." 

recently gotten out of prison, Wolfe said. 

In the past, Wolfe said, her brother didn't always have a clear head. He had problems with alcohol, and he had

According to York County Prison records, Gregory Stough was released from the prison Sept. 28, 2017, after being

incarcerated for not paying fines and costs for vehicle offenses. Prison records show he was in prison for two days

The first time he had been sent to York County Prison was in 2013. He was there for 30 days in connection with a

Pennsylvania State Police said Saturday that, at the time Northern York County Regional Police made contact with

Stough in the parking lot of Stillmeadow Church in Manchester Township, Stough had warrants for traffic-related

Wolfe searched for answers about what might have happened that led to police shooting and killing her brother.

State police reported that Stough resisted arrest before striking an officer with his vehicle and trying to run down

before he was released. 

harassment case. 

incidents. 

another officer. 

She wondered how police handled the situation when they encountered her brother in the parking lot. 

"I don't understand how this escalated," she said. 

Wayne Stough Jr. said he is waiting for more information from his son's autopsy and from investigators. He

wondered if police captured any of the incident on video. 

"We're still unsure of all the details of what happened," he said. "We're still trying to piece it together." 

He remembered his son as a funny kid, always good for a laugh. He had his troubles, Wayne Stough Jr. said, "but

yeah, he was a good kid." 

CAPTION:  

Gregory Stough 
 
 


Grand jury clears 2 officers who shot and killed - Columbus Dispatch,
The (OH) - November 17, 2018 - page 6B
November 17, 2018 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Edward Sutelan | Page 6B

A pair of Columbus police SWAT  officers will not be indicted for the fatal shooting of a woman who
pointed a rifle at them during a standoff earlier this year, Franklin County Prosecutor Ron O'Brien
announced Friday.

Officers Keith Kise and Glenn T hivener shot and killed Kaitlin DeM eo
block of Whims Road on the Southeast Side.

Kaitlin DeM eo , 25, on March 24 in the 6300

During the standoff, DeMeo broke out a rear window and pointed a loaded AR-15 semiautomatic
rifle at officers, leading them to shoot her, according to a news release from O'Brien's office.

Police eventually found eight spent shell casings from the rifle and a second loaded magazine
inside the home, the release said.

Kise, 47, has been with the Police Division for 23 years; T hivener, 51, has been with the Division for
30 years.

As is regular practice in officer-involved fatal shootings, O'Brien's office presented the case to a
county grand jury.

esutelan@dispatch.com

@EdwardSutelan

Copyrig ht 2018 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 

Officer involved in his 6th shooting - Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) -
March 27, 2018 - page 1B
March 27, 2018 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Beth Burger | Page 1B

Some police officers go their entire career without having to draw their guns and fire a single
round.

Others seem to find trouble, or trouble finds them.

Glenn T hivener, 50, a SWAT  team member, has shot and killed four people during his 29-year
career as a Columbus police officer. He's wounded two others.

Kaitlin Marie Demeo
Kaitlin Marie Demeo  was barricaded with a rifle in a Southeast Side house during a standoff
lasting more than three hours Saturday.

She fired off rounds hitting a nearby home and, in response, T hivener and another SWAT  officer,
46-year-old Keith Kise returned fire. She was pronounced dead at the scene. It was Kise's second
shooting.

All of T hivener's shootings before Saturday morning's incident have been ruled justified. It will be
months before a grand jury reviews the latest shooting, and even longer before an internal police
board reviews the level of force used.

T hivener, who has been a SWAT  team member since 2008, is often the point man as the SWAT
team enters a building. T hat means he's going to encounter a threat first, said Sgt. Dean
Worthington, a spokesman for Columbus Division of Police.

"He's point because he's good at it," Worthington said.

Experts say SWAT  officers, by the very nature of their jobs, are exposed to more high-risk
situations and therefore likely to be involved in more shootings. In T hivener's case, none of the
shootings have involved unarmed people. He's also fired alongside other officers.

T hivener's other fatal shootings were:

• Michael A. Lloyd, 48, a suspect in a string of business robberies, was under surveillance when he
entered a Donatos at 2769 Northland Plaza while wearing a mask and carrying a gun in October
2011.

• Kevin Boozer, 28, who took his girlfriend hostage with a knife held at her throat at a home on the
Far West Side in August 2012.

• Danny T hornton, 47, who went on a shooting rampage in November 2013. Thornton shot one

ex-girlfriend and then fatally shot the 9-year-old son of another ex-girlfriend in the face as the child
opened the door. T he boy died a day later.

One of the people T hivener wounded was Lincoln Rutledge, who shot and killed fellow SWAT  officer
Steven Smith.

"He's a SWAT  officer who's trained to neutralize a threat," said William T errill, a criminal justice
professor at Arizona State University.

Police departments rule that their officers are justified in their actions about 98 percent of the time,
T errill said.

In a post-Ferguson era, where questionable officer-involved shootings resulting in death are highly
publicized across the country, some may question an officer's involvement in so many shootings.

Police often refer to seasoned criminals as repeat offenders.

"From the public's perspective, he's a 'repeat officer.' I understand that from the public view, but
from a policing perspective, that's your job," he said.

Within those perspectives, "the truth probably lies somewhere in between," T errill said.

Police often don't look at earlier shootings when evaluating an officer's latest shooting incident,
said Sean Walton, an attorney who has pending lawsuits against the city regarding some officer-
involved shootings.

"I fully believe the use of deadly force is justified in situations," he said. "But because of the process
they undertake, and the lack of investigation ... we can't tell the difference between a good shoot
and bad shoot because the process is tainted."

Walton has advocated for an independent group to investigate officer-involved shooting.

Walton also believes officers should be offered more counseling because of the level of trauma
they have inevitably been exposed to in shootings. Many return to work after a few days off, he
said.

"T here's no way someone on their sixth shooting should not be scrutinized a little bit more, offered
more counseling," Walton said. "I mean, the guy's not a machine."

T here isn't a lot of research on the cumulative trauma police officers collect, T errill said.

"T he culture of policing is, historically, this tough guy (saying): 'We don't need help,'" he said. "We
don't know about the toll it takes, especially in the long term."

bburger@dispatch.com

@ByBethBurger

Copyrig ht 2018 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 

 
CLEVELAND  

Hearing set in 2002 murder conviction  

A court hearing is set this week to discuss the results of the Cuyahoga County prosecutor's probe into the 2002

murder conviction of a Cleveland man who maintains his innocence.  

Ru-El Sailor is set to be transferred from his Southern Ohio prison cell to the Cuyahoga County Jail on Wednesday.  

The move marks the first major development in the case since the conviction integrity unit of then-Prosecutor

Timothy J. McGinty's office twice denied Sailor's application to review his case. McGinty's challenger, Michael

O'Malley, pledged during the campaign that he would review Sailor's case.  

O'Malley's office re-opened the case after he took office in January 2017. Wednesday's hearing will determine

whether prosecutors stand by the conviction.  

A jury convicted Sailor alongside Cordell Hubbard and Nichole Hubbard of murder and other charges in the 2002

killing of Omar Clark, which came after Nichole Hubbard felt wronged in a $20 deal for a PCP-laced cigarette

involving one of Clark's friends.  

She called her brother, Cordell Hubbard, for back-up, and he came with an accomplice to confront the seller. Clark

intervened, the exchange turned violent and Clark was shot and killed.  

No physical evidence tied Sailor to the killing.  

Sailor filed multiple unsuccessful appeals seeking a new trial, despite having sworn testimony from Hubbard

saying that Sailor was innocent, and a sworn affidavit from relative of Clark's saying that another man, William

Sizemore, called him after the conviction and never mentioned Sailor being at the scene.  

Wednesday's hearing will be held in the courtroom of Judge Nancy McDonnell, who presided over the original trial.  

ELYRIA  

Man's death seen as possible homicide  

building as a suspected homicide.  

Elyria police detectives are investigating the death of a man whose body was discovered Sunday outside an office

Several juveniles found a 29-year-old man's body just before 8 p.m. on the lower part of a delivery ramp on River

Street at Clark Street, police said. His death has been deemed suspicious, police said.  

The man's name will be released once his family has been notified, police said.  

Investigators have not said how the man died.  

The Lorain County Coroner's Office will perform an autopsy to determine the cause of death, police said.  

Investigators have not released any additional details.  

CLEVELAND  

Apartment building fire displaces dozens  

A large fire broke out at a Cleveland housing complex Monday morning and spread to multiple units, leading to the

displacement of dozens of residents, officials and reports say.  

Cleveland firefighters fought a blaze at an apartment building in the Garden Valley complex, which is located in the

Kinsman neighborhood, Cleveland police spokesman Detective Reginald Lanton said.  

Fire officials say that one person was taken to the hospital, but they have not released further details on the cause

of that person's possible injuries.  

The flames affected multiple apartments on the building's third floor, Lanton said.  

The fire forced 60 people from their homes and was the result of a grease fire that started in a kitchen at about

The fire was brought under control at about 7:15 a.m., according to Cleveland fire officials.  

3:35 a.m., WOIO Channel 19 reports.  

COLUMBUS  

Woman killed during standoff with SWAT  

Columbus officers returned fire.  

Police in Ohio's capital city say an armed woman killed during a SWAT standoff was shot when two longtime

Columbus police say 25-year-old Kaitlin Marie Demeo was shot when she fired at officers from the window of a

home on Saturday morning, several hours after the standoff began. It is the city's fourth police-involved shooting

Police say a report of gunfire prompted the initial response to the home where Demeo barricaded herself, armed

Police say negotiators tried unsuccessfully to persuade her to surrender.  

On Monday, police identified the SWAT officers involved as a 29-year veteran of the department and a 22-year

An official from the local police union didn't immediately respond to a message seeking comment.  

Body of missing man found in Ohio River  

Police say the body of a West Virginia man who had been missing since Christmas has been found in the Ohio

Putnam County Sheriff Steve Deweese says in a statement on Facebook that a fisherman found the body of 44-

year-old Jason Kirkpatrick in the river last week near Gallipolis.  

Deweese says Tucker had lived in a campground in Winfield, West Virginia, and had been missing since Dec.  

The body has been sent to the state medical examiner in Charleston, West Virginia, for an autopsy.  

this year.  

with a rifle.  

veteran officer.  

GALLIPOLIS  

River.  

25.  

CANTON  

Man arrested after stabbing at eatery  

A felonious assault charge was filed against a 37-year-old man who reportedly stabbed an employee of the

EuroGyro restaurant at 3717 Cleveland Ave. NW early Saturday.  

William D. McIntyre of 2118 Washington Blvd. NW stabbed the victim in the back as restaurant employees were

trying to escort the suspect out of the business, according to police.  

McIntyre had been arguing with a woman in Euro-Gyro, according to the booking form at the Stark County Jail. The

incident occurred shortly after 2 a.m. Saturday.  

McIntyre fled, but police used a dog to track down him down near Chestnut Court and 34th Street Northwest. He

also is facing charges of resisting arrest and obstructing official business.  

JACKSON TOWNSHIP  

Police charge man with robbery  

a nearby motel.  

report at the Stark County Jail.  

records.  

A 52-year-old Perry Township man was arrested Saturday morning on a robbery charge after he allegedly took

money from the Marathon gasoline station and convenience store at 4516 Ever-hard Road NW.  

Police apprehended Joseph Lapidus of 139 Fair-lawn Ave. SW at 4:41 a.m. Saturday after discovering him outside

Lapidus entered the Marathon station and was denied permission to use a debit card, according to the arrest

He returned but was not successful in an attempt to use an automatic teller machine, also according to jail

Lapidus at that point told a woman employee to give him all the money in the cash register, which she complied

and he took $85, according to the jail booking form.  

He did not display a weapon during the robbery, the jail booking form states. Lapidus fled, but was apprehended by

police.  

From wire reports 
 
 

Police kill woman firing rifle in standoff - Columbus Dispatch, The (OH)
- March 25, 2018 - page 3B
March 25, 2018 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | John Futty | Page 3B

A 25-year-old woman was killed by Columbus police SWAT  officers Saturday after, they say, she
barricaded herself in a Southeast Side house with a rifle and fired rounds during a standoff of more
than three hours.

Kaitlin Marie Demeo  died at the scene of the shooting in the 6300 block of Whims Road.
Kaitlin Marie Demeo

Officers were called to the residence at 4:27 a.m. by a neighbor who reported that shots had been
fired, said Sgt. Dean Worthington, a police spokesman. "When they got there, the shots
continued," he said, and SWAT  was called to the home.

Attempts to negotiate with Demeo by phone were unsuccessful, and she periodically fired shots
from a front window and a rear window on the second floor, Worthington said.

Officers were authorized to use deadly force because of the danger that Demeo's actions posed,
not just to officers but also to the public, Worthington said.

"T hat rifle could reach a number of houses in the neighborhood," he said. "T hose rounds can go
through walls in a heartbeat."

When Demeo fired from the rear of the house shortly after 8 a.m., two SWAT  officers returned
fire and hit her, he said.

Demeo was firing from a relative's home, Worthington said. Her last known home was in the 1000
block of East 26th Street in the Linden area.

Worthington declined to discuss the motive for Demeo's actions. She had no criminal record in
Franklin County.

T he neighborhood where the barricade occurred is east of Brice Road and just north of Canal
Winchester.

It was the fourth officer-involved shooting in Columbus this year.

jfutty@dispatch.com

@johnfutty

Copyrig ht 2018 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 
Board clears 2 SWAT officers in fatal shooting - Columbus Dispatch, The
(OH) - February 15, 2019 - page 7B
February 15, 2019 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Jim Woods | Page 7B

T wo Columbus police SWAT  officers acted within the Police Division's use-of-firearms policy when
they returned fire and fatally shot a woman who was barricaded with a rifle inside a Southeast Side
house last March, police said.

Kaitlin Marie Demeo
Kaitlin Marie Demeo , 25, was shot at a residence in the 6300 block of Whims Road in a
neighborhood east of Brice Road and just north of Canal Winchester on March 24, 2018. Demeo
lived in South Linden and was visiting a relative at the time.

Demeo had barricaded herself inside the house during that Saturday afternoon and periodically had
fired an AR-15 rifle from the second-floor windows of the house. Attempts to negotiate with her by
phone that day were unsuccessful, Columbus police said.

When Demeo fired a rifle from a second-floor, rear window about 8 p.m., SWAT  Officers Keith Kise
and Glenn T hivener returned fire, shooting her, Columbus police said.

T he officers were authorized to use deadly force because Demeo was endangering the
neighborhood, police said.

Eight spent shell casings were found inside the house along with a second loaded magazine,
according to the Franklin County prosecutor's office.

T he Columbus Police Division's Firearms/Police Involved Death Review Board found that Kise and
T hivener had correctly followed division policy.

A Franklin County grand jury decided in November not to indict the officers.

Kise, 47, has been with the Police Division for more than 23 years. T hivener, 51, has more than 30
years of experience.

jwoods@dispatch.com

@Woodsnight

Copyrig ht 2019 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 
Police: Officers kill woman during SWAT standoff - Associated Press
State Wire: Ohio (OH) - March 24, 2018
March 24, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Ohio (OH)

COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Police in Ohio's capital city of Columbus say a woman who shot at
officers during a SWAT  standoff has been killed.

Kaitlin
Columbus police in a statement Saturday afternoon identified the woman as 25-year-old Kaitlin
M arie Demeo
M arie Demeo , of Columbus. She was fatally shot around 8 a.m. Saturday during a standoff that
began several hours earlier.

Police spokesman Sgt. Dean Worthington says officers initially responded to a home after a report
of shots being fired. Worthington says Demeo had barricaded herself inside the home, armed with
a rifle.

Worthington says Columbus SWAT  and Negotiation Team officers tried to persuade Demeo to
surrender.

He says Demeo fired at officers from an upstairs window at around 8 a.m., prompting two SWAT
officers to kill her.

It's the fourth police shooting in Columbus this year.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Police: 2 veteran cops shot at armed woman in - Associated Press State
Wire: Ohio (OH) - March 26, 2018
March 26, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Ohio (OH)

COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Police in Ohio's capital city say an armed woman killed during a SWAT
standoff was shot when two longtime Columbus officers returned fire.

Kaitlin Marie Demeo  was shot when she fired at officers from
Columbus police say 25-year-old Kaitlin Marie Demeo
the window of a home on Saturday morning, several hours after the standoff began. It is the city's
fourth police-involved shooting this year.

Police say a report of gunfire prompted the initial response to the home where Demeo barricaded
herself, armed with a rifle. Police say negotiators tried unsuccessfully to persuade her to surrender.

On Monday, police identified the SWAT  officers involved as a 29-year veteran of the department
and a 22-year veteran officer.

An official from the local police union didn't immediately respond to a message seeking comment.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 


 
May 17--JACKSON, Mich. -- Five police officers who shot and killed an armed robbery suspect in March on Tyson

Street acted properly in defense of themselves and their fellow officers, Jackson County Prosecutor Jerry Jarzynka

has concluded. 

"Moreover, it is also evident that from the perspective of the police officers, they honestly and reasonably believed

that Kenneth Townley posed a threat to each of them," Jarzynka wrote in an opinion released Thursday, May 17. 

Blackman-Leoni Township public safety Officers Chandler Fryt and James Prus, Jackson County Sheriff's Deputy

Archie Wickham and Jackson Officers David Renteria and Peter Postma discharged their weapons March 11 in

Blackman Township only after Townley extended his arm with a gun pointed at them, Jarzynka reported. 

This means the officers will not be charged with any wrongdoing. 

Fryt told Townley, believed to have robbed a Dollar General store minutes earlier, at least four times to put his

hands on his head and he did not comply. He then reached his right hand into the pocket of his sweatshirt. Fryt

yelled several times for Townley to get his hand out of his pocket. He instead pulled what appeared to be a gun

partially out of the sweatshirt, according to Jarzynka. 

Townley failed to heed numerous "loud verbal commands" to drop the weapon, which was later discovered to be an

Airsoft or toy gun. 

Fryt told Townley to put down the gun 10 times, according to Jarzynka. "Hey, we can work this out," he says, a

video shows. Townley raised it and pointed at Fryt's vehicle, which officers were using for cover. Officers

continued to yell, but Townley brought the gun to shoulder level, directing it at the officers. 

Townley, 47, fell to the ground after several shots rang out and died during surgery at Henry Ford Allegiance

Health. An autopsy revealed Townley had five gunshot wounds. 

This information was consistent with witness accounts the day of the shooting, and among the evidence reviewed

by Jarzynka and collected by the Michigan State Police First District Special Investigation Section was video from

a Blackman-Leoni Township public safety vehicle. Michael Jester, director of the public safety department, has

since released the recording. 

Fryt had spotted a man about 2:39 p.m. on Tyson Street near Watts Street who matched the description of a man

who used a gun to rob the Dollar General store at 3025 E. Michigan Ave. He took $371.19 from the register. The

robbery had been reported about 2:24 p.m. 

The officer stopped his patrol vehicle and contacted the man, later identified as Townley. "Sir, show me your

hands," he yells. He asked Townley to walk toward him, and Townley did, Jarzynka wrote. About that time, the

other four officers and public safety Officer Jeremiah Wheeler arrived. State police found Wheeler did not fire his

weapon. 

Released from jail one day earlier after a months-long, theft-related stint, Townley, believed to be homeless,

allegedly stole the Airsoft pistol March 10 from the Meijer store at 3333 E. Michigan Ave. A short time later, he

committed an armed robbery and attempted car jacking at the store, the prosecutor wrote. 

The public safety department earlier reported officers believed Townley demanded a 54-year-old woman's purse

and keys about 12:20 a.m. March 11 in the store parking lot. 

After watching surveillance video, public safety authorities identified Townley as the parking lot culprit and

disseminated this information. 

Michigan law allows a person to use deadly force to defend himself or the life of another person. According to

Jarzynka, it is justified when the actor is not the aggressor, acts under an honest and reasonable belief of

imminent death or great bodily harm and retreats if possible, and when the only recourse in repelling the attack is

use of deadly force. 

The Michigan Supreme Court has clarified a person "is never required to retreat from a sudden, fierce and violent

attack; nor is he required to retreat from an attacker who he reasonably believes is about to use a deadly weapon,"

Jarzynka wrote. Police in particular do not have an obligation to withdraw because of their duty to protect the

public, according to the prosecutor. 

something differently. 

Jarzynka said the purpose of his review was not to determine if the officers could have or might have done

"It is not whether, given the full benefit of hindsight, this tragic death could have been avoided," he wrote. "Rather,

the sole question to be decided is whether the death of Kenneth Scott Townley was the result of a criminal act by

the officers involved in this shooting." 

The involved officers were placed on paid administrative leave after the shooting. By Thursday, all of them had

returned to work, administrators for the various departments reported. Renteria, back on patrol in early April, retired

last month. 

Jarzynka will soon have to review another state police report on an officer-involved shooting, which was still open

and pending as of last week. Three weeks after Townley's death, Jackson police shot and killed Christopher Lamarr

Hall on April 1 outside a house on Chittock Avenue. They were called to domestic assault and Hall, who had badly

Company / organization:

Name: Meijer Inc; NAICS: 445110, 446110, 448120, 452111; Name: Dollar General

Corp; NAICS: 452990; Name: State Police-Michigan; NAICS: 922120; Name: Supreme

Court-Michigan; NAICS: 922110

beaten his girlfriend, shot and wounded an officer. 

CREDIT: By Danielle Salisbury 
 
 


 
May 12--JACKSON, Mich. -- Jackson County Prosecutor Jerry Jarzynka hopes to issue an opinion next week on

whether officers were justified in shooting and killing an armed man suspected of robbing a Blackman Township

dollar store. 

Jarzynka said his office received the full Michigan State Police investigation report, including a stack of discs, on

May 4, and he is thoroughly reviewing the information. 

"You have to go through all the evidence. You have to compare that to the law that applies and reach a conclusion,"

the prosecutor said on Friday, May 11. 

Five officers fired March 11 at Kenneth Scott Townley in the area of Tyson and Watts streets in Blackman

Township. Neighborhood witnesses said he raised a gun and did not drop it as ordered. 

Townley soon after died at Henry Ford Allegiance Health. 

Police believed the 47-year-old, armed with a handgun, held up the Dollar General, 3025 E. Michigan Ave., about

2:25 p.m. Within minutes, police found him walking a few blocks from the business. Officers from three

departments -- Jackson police, Blackman-Leoni Township public safety and the Jackson County Sheriff's Office --

"attempted to make contact" and then fired multiple rounds, state police Detective 1st Lt. Tom DeClercq earlier

said. 

Possibly homeless, Townley also used a handgun to demand a 54-year-old woman's purse and keys about 12:20

a.m. April 11 in the parking lot at the Meijer on E. Michigan Avenue, police believe. Caught stealing last year while

on probation, he had been released from jail about 20 hours earlier. 

His was the first of two officer-involved shootings in three weeks in Jackson County. 

On another Sunday afternoon, Jackson police shot and killed Christopher Lamarr Hall on April 1, while many were

sitting down to Easter dinners, on Chittock Avenue in Jackson. 

Hall badly beat up his girlfriend Heather Jurasek, hitting her with a pistol, and then shot and wounded a Jackson

officer responding to a report of domestic assault, according to Jurasek and state police. The officer and two

others exchanged gunfire with Hall and he died in the yard outside the home he shared with Jurasek. 

The officer recovered; he attended on Wednesday a memorial for fallen officers in downtown Jackson. 

Friday, DeClercq said that investigation is ongoing. Police are waiting on a report from the medical examiner, the

results of toxicology testing and a few laboratory reports. 

He is hoping to have the case information to Jarzynka for his review in a week or two. 

The state police detectives, of the First District Special Investigation Section, based in Lansing, are doing a

detailed, complete and thorough inquiry, Jarzynka noted. "When you do that, it takes time." 

CREDIT: By Danielle Salisbury 
 
 



 
May 25--JACKSON, Mich. -- Two officers involved in a fatal Easter shooting on Chittock Avenue have returned to

work, Elmer Hitt, Jackson police and fire services director, said this week. 

An administrative investigation cleared the officers of any violation of department policy, Hitt said. They were back

in uniform on May 8. 

Jackson County Prosecutor Jerry Jarzynka, meanwhile, is beginning to review a Michigan State Police

investigation, presented to him on Wednesday, May 23. 

It will be up to Jarzynka to decide whether officers are criminally responsible or were justified in shooting and

killing Christopher Lamarr Hall, who had beaten his girlfriend before he fired at police on April 1. 

Three officers, called to a report of domestic assault, exchanged gunfire with Hall, 34, outside the home he and

Heather Jurasek shared between Morrell and Rockwell streets. 

One of the officers was hit in the leg and was still recovering. Hitt said he intends to return to work. 

Jurasek also was hurt in the shooting. She had a bullet lodged in her pelvis and other grazing wounds. 

Hall died at the scene, in the lawn next to Jurasek. 

A state police detective from the Lansing-based First District Special Investigation Section brought Jarzynka a

binder of the agency's findings. Jarzynka expected it would take some time to review the case. 

The Jackson officers were not wearing body cameras -- the city just approved purchase of such cameras in March

-- and there was not direct patrol vehicle footage, the prosecutor said. 

Last week, Jarzynka released a written opinion clearing five officers, two of them from the Jackson Police

Department, of any wrongdoing for firing at Kenneth Scott Townley on March 11 in the area of Tyson and Watts

streets in Blackman Township. Townley, suspected of robbing a dollar store minutes earlier, soon after died at

Henry Ford Allegiance Health. 

Video from one of the officers' vehicles clearly showed Townley failing to heed police commands and raising what

appeared to be a gun. It was later determined to be an Airsoft pistol. 

CREDIT: By Danielle Salisbury 
 
 
