
 
Headnote 

gunfire. 

Grandfather dies, officer shot in gunfire 

A grandfather, thinking a SWAT team serving an arrest warrant early Monday morning were burglars, opened fire

on police, hitting one officer in the face inside his Germantown home. The man was wounded in the exchange of

The alleged shooter, identified as the 59-year-old grandfather of the man targeted in the warrant, died Monday

afternoon from his injuries at a hospital hours after the incident in the 4800 block of Knox Street, NBC-10 and The

Associated Press reported. 

Officials said the grandfather thought someone was breaking into his home and opened fire. 

"These officers, according to at least one witness, did knock and announce more than once, witnesses heard that.

After taking some time to get past at least two doors that's when they came under fire," Police Commissioner

Richard Ross told reporters. 

Later, he said, "It appears at this point that the homeowner thought someone was breaking into his home." 

"And he went about the business of protecting his home, not knowing that it was the police at the door that he

RAID 5A RAID 1A 

was firing upon," the police chief added. 

"This is an all-out, absolute tragedy all the way around," Ross said Monday afternoon. 

The SWAT team came under fire after it went through one door at the house about 6 a.m. Monday. Shots were

fired through a second glass door and officer Jaison Potts was hit near his jaw. The gunman was hit several times

in an exchange with other officers, authorities said. 

The man who shot at the officers was critically wounded in the shootout. A 67-year-old woman at the home was

also wounded as she left through the back door during the incident. Authorities had not released their names after

they were taken to Einstein Medical Center, according to news reports. 

The woman was listed in stable condition after she was hit in the abdomen by what police think was shotgun

pellet. She also sustained back injuries while running out of the rear of the home. 

Officials said the 20-yearold grandson being sought in the gun violation warrant was not in the residence. He

surrendered to police later on Monday. 

Other details emerged during the afternoon. 

Johnson told 6-aBc. 

"My dad thought that someone was breaking in. So, he has a registered firearm and he did shoot," Laquisha

Johnson said her father, Ricardo Giddings, fired four shots at police. SWAT fired five shots back, killing the

homeowner and hitting her mother, Joanne Giddings, in the leg. 

Ross said the 49-year-old officer suffered a broken jaw and may have artery damage along with other injuries. He

added that Potts walked into Temple University hospital and was expected to survive. 

Potts is a 20-year veteran of the police force. Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney said the married father of three was

due to start a vacation on Monday, according to AP. 

Ross said the man may not have heard police announce their presence due to a television set being on. He said

police made the announcement more than once and neighbors reported hearing them do so. 

"It is important to note that we did not fire until we were fired upon, but sadly it doesn't change the circumstances

that ... all accounts, this is just tragedy," Ross told The AP. 

Asked whether the situation could have been avoided, Ross said "I don't see how." 

The police chief said SWAT serves about 300 such "high-risk" warrants each year without incident, and the last

time SWAT members even fired their weapons was in 2015. In each of the three previous incidents, officers were

shot while making entry, he said. 

In a Facebook post, Philadelphia police said Potts did not sustain any life-threatening injuries: 

Company / organization:

Name: Temple University; NAICS: 611310; Name: Facebook Inc; NAICS: 518210,

bbooker@phillytrib.com 

(215) 893-5749 
 
 
