State troopers again involved deadly shooting - Warren Reporter, The
(Hackettstown, NJ) - June 22, 2018 - page A1
June 22, 2018 | Warren Reporter, The (Hackettstown, NJ) | Steve Novak | Page A1

hardwick twp.

T wo men are dead following separate encounters with New Jersey State Police that happened only
days apart in the same Warren County township.

Both cases were under review by the state attorney general’s office.

Stephen Cog elia
Stephen Cogelia , 32, was shot and killed by a state trooper shortly after 9 p.m. June 12 at
Cogelia’s family’s home on Sunset Lake Road in Hardwick T ownship, according to a release on June
13 from the attorney general.

Cogelia’s father had asked him to leave after Cogelia threatened him and other occupants, the
release says.

While the father went to the state police

station in Hope Township to get a restraining order, Cogelia returned home and made more
threats, the attorney general said.

Five troopers responded and entered the home, where Cogelia threatened them, the release said.

T hey reportedly encountered Cogelia in a second-floor bedroom, where he was armed with a
hunting knife.

T he attorney general says one trooper opened fire, killing Cogelia, who was pronounced dead at
the scene.

T he troopers were not hurt.

T odd Gregory, a 47-year-old man from Coram, New York, died after a chase on June 9 that started
on Interstate 80 in Knowlton T ownship, near the Delaware Water Gap and Pennsylvania border.

Gregory was wanted in connection with a dispute in Long Island earlier that day, in which he
allegedly harassed a man and his family.

Police had said Gregory fired a shot at a group of people in front of the other man’s home and hit
a car. A 15-year-old boy standing behind the vehicle was wounded by debris from the shots and
was hospitalized for minor injuries, according to Suffolk County police.

New Jersey State Police had been alerted that Gregory was armed, suicidal and planned to engage
police, according to a news release Saturday from the attorney general’s office.

T roopers lost sight of the truck during a pursuit, but found it about 11:30 p.m. parked off Old Mine
Road in Hardwick T ownship. A gun was fired inside the vehicle as troopers approached, and one of
the officers opened fire, the attorney general’s office said. Gregory had two rifles in his truck. He
was pronounced dead at the scene.

It remained unclear Wednesday if Gregory took his own life or if police fired the fatal shot.

T here is an official review anytime police use deadly force. In these cases, both shootings are
under investigation by the attorney general’s shooting response team, according to news releases.

Under a state directive, the cases will go to a grand jury “unless the undisputed facts indicate that
the use of force wasjustified under the law.”

No estimate was provided Wednesday to indicate how long the reviews would take.

Steve Novak, NJ Advance Media, snovak@ lehighvalleylive.com"

Copyrig ht 2018 The Warren Reporter. All Rights Reserved.

 