Video shows Panera gunman's last moments - Trentonian, The (Trenton,
NJ) - April 9, 2018
April 9, 2018 | Trentonian, The (Trenton, NJ) | Isaac Avilucea

Surveillance footage released by the state Attorney General's Office shows the Panera gunman in
the last moments of his life, raising what appeared to be a black handgun from his waist toward
combat-gear clad officers staked out inside the chain eatery.

T he nearly five minute soundless clip from inside the store – an annotated version which was
released Monday – shows 56-year-old Scott M ielentz
Scott Mielentz  standing several feet away from the
officers near the drink machine as a TEAMS officer has an M4 rifle trained on him from behind a
wooden bench inside the restaurant.

Sources had previously told T he T rentonian that Mielentz, who had crushing debt and financial
problems, was intent on committing suicide by cop when he went to the restaurant with a gun
March 20, leading to a five-hour-long standoff with police.

T hat was backed up by records obtained by T he T rentonian that showed Mielentz had texted a
friend about wanting to end his life the morning of the standoff.

T he AG's office said two officers from the state police's Technical Emergency and Missions
Specialists with M4 rifles fired on Mielentz around 2:54 p.m. after he pointed what looked like a gun
in his right hand at the officers. Documents obtained by T he T rentonian identified the police
shooters as troopers William Kerstetter and Joseph T rogani. Kerstetter is a 14-year veteran and
T roggani has 15 years with state police, according to pension records.

Mielentz, who was pronounced dead at the scene, was struck in the head and the torso as officers
converged on him.

Investigators later determined the gun Mielentz wielded during the tense encounter was a BB
pistol, officials said.

T he shooting remains under investigation by the AG's Shooting Response T eam, but the office
released the tape in response to public records requests, including one from T he T rentonian.

Mielentz was a former IT  worker who went through bouts of unemployment. T he feds went after
him for fraud after he received disability benefits while they said he was simultaneously working.

Mielentz had also identified himself as a Vietnam War veteran, but he was not old enough to serve
in the military at the time the war ended in 1975.

He had spent time in a psychiatric facility in 2013, and the doctor wrote in the admission notes
Mielentz didn't have any VA benefits but was working to try to get them. Sources said Mielentz was

only in the armed forces a matter of months.

Copyrig ht 2018, Trentonian, The (Trenton, NJ) - a Journal Register Company Property, All Rights Reserved.

 