Citizens urged to pray for Covington officer - Newton Citizen, The (GA) -
September 5, 2018
September 5, 2018 | Newton Citizen, The (GA) | Larry Stanford

COVINGT ON - Calling Covington employees her family, City Manager Leigh Anne Knight stated
that when she got the call that Covington Police Officer Matt Cooper had been shot Monday, it
hurt deeply.

Knight, along with the City Council and mayor, expressed their feelings about Cooper and the
shooting incident on Sept. 3 during the council's meeting Tuesday night. Council member Susie
Keck was out of town.

Cooper, 34, and another officer responded to a shoplifting call at the Walmart on Industrial
Boulevard Monday at about 12:24 p.m. where three male suspects were encountered in the
shopping center parking lot. T he three were reportedly attempting to steal bandannas.

According to Capt. Ken Malcom, the two younger suspects were apprehended, but a third fled
across Industrial Boulevard and ran behind the Little Phillies shopping center that is adjacent to a
wooded area. Cooper and the other officer pursued him, with one going around the rear of the
shopping center from the east and the other from the west. Malcom said the officer approaching
from the east side heard a gunshot and found Cooper wounded and unconscious.

T he suspect's body was found a short time later in the wooded area. T he Georgia Bureau of
Investigation said preliminary findings indicate Aaron Demonta Fleming
Aaron Demonta Fleming , 21, died of a self-
inflicted gunshot wound. He was armed with a .38 revolver, according to police.

Cooper is currently in serious condition at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta with a bullet lodged
next to the carotid artery. Doctors are determining the best way to remove the bullet without
damaging the artery.

Knight said city employees feel like family members to each other, and that the shooting of
Cooper by a suspect following a foot chase hit her "family" hard.

"Yesterday was, for most of us, one of the hardest, if not the hardest days we have had to endure
as a city employee," she said. "A little bit of our joy is gone as we wrap our heads around how our
fellow employee is fighting for his life after trying to protect those in our community. We have
found ourselves pausing during the day to talk about Matt, pray for Matt and his family and our
first responders."

Knight went on to ask the community to do three things in the aftermath of what has happened.

"Most importantly, remember Matt and his family in your prayers," said Knight. "His condition is
critical and he has a tremendous battle in front of him. But Matt is a tough guy. He is an armed

forces veteran, a veteran police officer and we know he is fighting harder than ever right now.

"Remember all of our police officers and public safety personnel in your thoughts and prayers. It
should be evident now more than ever just how real the danger of their job is.

"Be thankful for the service of our officers and public safety employees," she continued. "T hey
patrol the streets at 3 a.m. while we are sleeping, putting in the work to keep Covington safe for
us. Obviously risking their lives every minute they are on their shift for us. We need to let them
know we realize their sacrifice and appreciate it.

"So please… take a minute next time you see an officer and introduce yourself and thank them for
laying their life on the line for you. T hen stop for a second and think about how fortunate we are to
have officers risk their lives for the safety of people they don't know. It is a privilege."

Michael Whatley watched Cooper growing up and said Cooper is one of his son's dear friends.
Whatley said the only thing he (Whatley) and others can do right now is pray.

"I do believe that prayer works," said Whatley… "T hat's all I can do, and I hope that if you think
there is nothing you can do, just sit back and say 'Well, I can pray.' If that's all you can do, that's
enough. Let's get this boy back on his feet."

Anthony Henderson, who works for the Newton County Sheriff's Office, said he doesn't know
Cooper personally, but he has seen him in the community. He added that as a member of law
enforcement, he understands the sacrifices first responders make and urged the community to
continue to pray and support Cooper and his family.

"T o his family, we're rooting for you," he said. "I know he is strong, I know he is a warrior; he has
done his part to serve our country and he does a great job in our community."

Kenneth Morgan noted that he was shopping in Walmart on Monday when the incident happened,
but did not know an officer had been shot until afterwards. He said it is unfortunate that it takes an
incident like this to bond a community together.

"T here is a lot of work that still has to be done, but I think this shows the leadership of our city and
the community togetherness, because we have bonded together as a city," said Morgan. "We
haven't made any reference or anything out of character; we have bonded together, the only thing
we know that we can do for our community."

Josh McKelvey said when he received the phone call about the shooting, it was like being punched in
his gut.

"My heart definitely goes out to his family and parents and to the community," he said. "We've
been in constant prayer since that happened. I was at my church this afternoon and I saw people
coming in and out of the sanctuary, just dropping off cards and getting on our knees to pray… I
want him and his family to know that the whole community is behind him and we're rooting for and
pulling for him and know that he is going to get through this and it will be an amazing story to tell."

Hawnethia Williams said the shooting hit her as hard as it has others and urged residents to use
this chance to bond together and remain together as a community.

"Sometimes it takes this kind of tragedy for us to come together as we know we should as human
beings," said Williams. "It is something that we need to learn - that we all bleed the same color
blood. T hat we have more things in common than we have in terms of differences. We all grieve
together for a person that sometimes we don't know, but is another human being that was
created by the same God that created us all… We need to remember that, and not just in times of
tragedy."

Mayor Ronnie Johnston agreed with others about continuing to bond as a community in praying
for Cooper.

"My challenge to this community is that Matt can get a statue made of him for being the guy that
led us down a path of really truly coming together and sustaining that for a long period of time,"
said Johnston… "We need to take Matt's courage and inspiration to a whole other level. Covington
is a special place, and we do care about each other."

Copyrig ht 2018, Newtown Citizen, All Rights Reserved.

 