Police release details of events that lead to - Walton Tribune, The
(Monroe, GA) - September 4, 2018
September 4, 2018 | Walton Tribune, The (Monroe, GA) | David Clemons | Walton Tribune

Covington police said two juvenile suspects and an adult man hid items in a large backpack Monday
and left a Walmart in the shoplifting incident that led to an officer being shot.

Officer Matt Cooper and Sgt. Allan Seebaran chased one of the men, who shot at Cooper, striking
him in the head.

Cooper, 34, remained in an Atlanta hospital Tuesday in serious condition.

T he Covington Police Department released the incident report T uesday.

At about 12:24 p.m., Officer Stacy Cosby was dispatched to Walmart at 10300 Industrial Blvd. NE
to a call of a shoplifting in progress.

T he caller said three people — two juvenile suspects and one large adult man — were seen
concealing items in a large backpack-type bag. T he caller said the three suspects passed all points
of sale and she kept an eye on them as they went to the parking lot.

Cosby reported confronting one of the juvenile suspects in the parking lot and said the child
admitted taking items. Cosby took the child, 14 years old, into custody and returned him to meet
with the store's loss prevention officer.

A few minutes later, Cooper intercepted the other juvenile suspect and returned him to the store
employee. Soon, Seebaran reported being in a chase with the adult suspect.

Cooper was adjusting the handcuffs on one of the juvenile suspects when Seebaran's call came in,
and Cooper dropped his handcuff key in an effort to get to Seebaran's aid. Cosby stayed back with
the juvenile suspects already in custody.

After a few minutes, Seebaran called out "shots fired." Cosby left the juvenile suspects with the
store employee to assist.

Cosby reported arriving at the corner of Industrial Boulevard Northeast and Hazelbrand Road
Northeast, running up a hill behind two Newton County sheriff's deputies. Cosby held the
southwest corner of the building and the deputies ran toward its right side. Officer Brian Capps was
on the northwest side of the building with an AR-15 gun and yelled for Cosby to cover his back, a
position Cosby held until other officers advised the scene was safe.

Cosby later returned to the store to get the names and addresses of the juvenile subjects, and
their mothers' names. T he teens were turned over to Sgt. Chris Smith.

T he Georgia Bureau of Investigation was called in to investigate. It later identified the shooting
suspect as 21-year-old Aaron Demonta Fleming
believed to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Aaron Demonta Fleming , of Conyers, and said Fleming died of what is

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Walton Tribune

 