
 
The Los Angeles Times and the Sacramento Bee sued the Sacramento County Sheriff's Department on Friday for

documents about misconduct or significant force by deputies, marking the latest case in what has become a

statewide legal battle over the disclosure of law enforcement personnel records. 

The lawsuit alleges that the department violated the state's Public Records Act by denying requests from both

Disciplinary reports have long been secret in California, but a landmark law that took effect Jan. 1 requires the

disclosure of records of shootings by officers, severe uses of force and confirmed cases of sexual assault and

newspapers. 

lying by officers. 

that took place before 2019. 

retroactive." 

Law enforcement unions in Los Angeles and several other counties have obtained temporary restraining orders

stopping agencies from releasing records, arguing that Senate Bill 1421 does not apply to records from incidents

In denying requests for the documents, the Sacramento Sheriff's Department said it was withholding records until

there was "clear legal authority to release such records" because "Senate Bill 1421 ... was not expressly made

There are no restraining orders preventing the Sheriff's Department from releasing the records. 

The newspapers' lawsuit cited two deadly shootings by Sacramento police officers last year that set off protests.

In one, Stephon Clark, an unarmed 22-year-old, was fatally shot in his grandmother's backyard as police looked for

a vandal in the neighborhood. In the other, 19-year-old Darell Richards was shot after allegedly pointing a pellet gun

at SWAT officers. 

"The public interest in monitoring police conduct is especially strong in Sacramento County (as in the rest of

California), where officer-involved shootings which claimed the lives of Stephon Clark and Darell Richards, have

ignited public protests and criticism of police," the lawsuit said. 

The lawsuit said that when SB 1421 was being developed last year, one of the bill's opponents, the Los Angeles

County Professional Peace Officers Assn., acknowledged the measure would be retroactive. The group, which

represents some Los Angeles County sheriff's deputies, argued that some police records could become public

even if an officer's actions were justified. 

"Moreover, our reading of Senate Bill 1421 is that making the records of an officer's lawful and in-policy conduct is

retroactive in its impact ... (an officer's) records are available for public inspection irrespective of whether or not

they occurred prior to the effective date of SB 1421," the association wrote. The comments were cited in a

California Senate public safety committee analysis of the bill. 

Until last year, the state's powerful law enforcement unions repeatedly blocked attempts to make any disciplinary

records public. But lawmakers approved SB 1421 amid a heightened debate over how officers use force and

interact with communities of color. 

Proponents of the measure say restricting its reach to records of incidents after Jan. 1 severely limits the law's

effectiveness and shields misconduct by some officers who remain on the job. 

Sen. Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley), who wrote the law, said she intended for it to apply to any records in a

department's possession. She added that if a court decided otherwise, she believed the law would still increase

transparency of police activities. 

comment Friday afternoon. 

The Sacramento County Sheriff's Department did not immediately respond to an email and phone call requesting

Caption: PHOTO: STEVANTE CLARK speaks at a rally in Sacramento to protest last year's fatal shooting of his

brother, Stephon Clark, by police officers. Stephon was unarmed. 

PHOTOGRAPHER:Josh Edelson AFP/Getty Images 
 
 
