Police wearing bodycams in a new place after fatal - Sacramento Bee,
The (CA) - November 13, 2018 - page 3A
November 13, 2018 | Sacramento Bee, The (CA) | Theresa Clift | Page 3A

Sacramento police officers are wearing their body cameras in a different location to minimize
accidental shut-offs when officers use their rifles, a police spokesman said Monday.

T he change was implemented after police learned that the body cameras of multiple officers were
turned off when officers fatally shot 19-year-old Darell Richards
Darell Richards  in September - including the
camera of one of the SWAT  officers who fired shots, said Vance Chandler, Sacramento police
spokesman.

"(T hey're) putting them now in a place where the stock of their weapon is less likely to hit the
button to turn them off," Chandler said. Chandler said officers were previously wearing the
cameras on the center of their chests, where rifle butts were prone to hit the power switch. Now
officers who carry rifles will wear cameras off to the side.

T he change applies to the department's roughly 15 SWAT  officers, as well as all patrol officers who
carry rifles, Chandler said.

T he department is looking for a long-term solution to the problem, Chandler said.

Richards' family has filed a claim against the city - a precursor to a federal civil rights lawsuit, said
John Burris, the family's lawyer.

Burris, who has litigated several police shooting cases, said he has not heard of officers' weapons
turning off body cameras.

"T here should not be a situation where typically the best evidence in a case is neutralized because
of the video camera's contact with the weapon," Burris said. "It should never happen."

Several other departments who buy body cameras from the same company, Axon, have had
similar issues, Chandler said.

During a news conference Monday, Richards' family and Black Lives Matter activists criticized the
department for the cameras being turned off. T hey also demanded that the police department
release the names of the officers involved, that the city fire the officers involved, and that the
District Attorney's Office charge the officers. Richards had mental health issues, family members
said.

"T hey had a chance to use other options, for them to arrest him, bring him in alive instead of them
just shooting him down the way they did," said Kathie Richards, Darell's grandmother. "I still don't
understand why the SWAT  team was brought in to the situation."

T he two officers who fired shots were placed on paid administrative leave, in accordance with the
department's policy for police-involved shootings, Chandler said. Both officers are now back on
active duty.

T he department does not plan to release the officers' names because the department has
received threats against them, but the department will continue to consider it, Chandler said.

T he incident began at around 11:30 p.m. Sept. 5 when a 911 caller said a man wearing a face mask
was pointing a gun at people while walking up Broadway. Patrol officers found the man near 20th
Street and Broadway, and he fled to Curtis Park. Police blocked off streets, and used K-9 officers
and a California Highway Patrol airplane crew to find him. SWAT  officers found Richards hours later
crouching under a stairwell in the backyard of a Curtis Park home.

Police said Richards pointed the gun at officers, causing police to fatally shoot him. Afterward,
police said they recovered Richards' gun, which looked like a 9mm handgun but was actually a pellet
gun. T hey said they also recovered a knife.

Police later released video of the incident, which showed Richards had a gun, but did not show
where he pointed it.

T he police investigation into the incident is continuing, Chandler said. T he investigation includes
determining whether the officers acted according to policy.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Sacramento Bee

 