Man fatally shot by police in Curtis Park was - Sacramento Bee, The (CA)
- September 7, 2018 - page 1B
September 7, 2018 | Sacramento Bee, The (CA) | Michael MGough and Molly Sullivan | Page 1B

T he man fatally shot by police Thursday morning was armed with a pellet gun modeled after a 9
mm handgun and a knife, Sacramento police said in a press release.

T he man - identified late Thursday as Darell Richards
Office - was shot by two SWAT  officers after he refused to drop the gun and then pointed it at
officers, the department said.

Darell Richards , 19, by the Sacramento County Coroner's

Dispatch received a call at 11:23 p.m. Wednesday reporting a person armed with a firearm and
wearing a mask in the area of 16th Street and Broadway, according to police spokesman Sgt.
Vance Chandler.

Officers responded and found a suspect matching that description at 20th Street and Broadway,
and the man ran away as officers tried to make contact, Chandler said. Police did not chase on
foot but maintained visual from patrol cars, he said.

T he man was wearing a black hoodie, gray pants and carrying a black backpack, according to radio
communications accessed through Broadcastify, an online archive of police radio activity.

He ditched his backpack while fleeing police on Broadway.

T he suspect, who was identified by the coroner as African American, ran into a residential area
south of 20th and Broadway and attempted to jump a fence; it was then that an officer standing
outside his patrol car saw the man holding the gun in his hand, according to the release.

Officers established a perimeter and called the SWAT  team in, Chandler said. T he SWAT  team
searched the area using a K-9 and at 3:12 a.m. Thursday found the suspect hiding under a stairwell
in a backyard of an occupied house.

"At the time, he posed an immediate threat to officers, and two SWAT  officers fired on the
suspect," Chandler said.

Officers performed CPR until fire personnel arrived and pronounced the man dead at the scene.
Officers recovered the gun and discovered it was actually a pellet gun that looked very similar to a
Sig Sauer P225 9 mm handgun, according to the release. T hey also found a knife at the scene.

T he suspect's name has not yet been released by the Sacramento County Coroner's Office.

T he two officers involved in the shooting are 11- and 17-year veterans with the department;
neither were injured.

Homicide detectives, Internal Affairs and Crime Scene Investigation units responded to the scene
T hursday morning, which remained closed throughout the day.

A large police presence remained along 21st Street near Broadway, closing 21st Street, Larkin Way
and most of Burnett Way.

Linda Perrault, who lives on nearby Burnett Way, said she received a message on her voicemail
from Sacramento police Thursday morning advising residents to stay in place as officers searched
for an armed suspect. She said she locked her doors and "hibernated."

T im Foster, the executive director of publisher Open California, tweeted video of police activity
around midnight, saying "Cops were suddenly EVERYWHERE."

Foster on T witter described a "full SWAT  team" entering his neighbor's yard, then tweeted "SHOT S
FIRED IN MY BACKYARD!"

At 3:40 a.m., Foster wrote, "Pretty sure someone just died in my backyard."

Foster declined a request for comment by T he Bee.

Police have not yet determined whether the masked man committed crimes other than
brandishing a firearm before fleeing, Chandler said.

T hursday's incident marks at least the third confirmed officer-involved shooting resulting in the
death of a suspect in Sacramento County so far this year. In addition to the high-profile death of
Stephon Clark, a shooting during a confrontation at an Elk Grove hotel killed a 26-year-old man in
late April.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Sacramento Bee

 