Officials: Man fleeing police fatally shot in New - Associated Press State
Wire: Maine (ME) - August 21, 2018
August 21, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maine (ME)

ROCHEST ER, N.H. (AP) — A man who had previously fled from state police in Maine led New
Hampshire officers on a car chase and died in a shootout, officials said.

Doug las H eath, 38, was wanted on several outstanding warrants, including one for trafficking
Doug las H eath
narcotics and another for fleeing from Maine troopers, New Hampshire Attorney General Gordon
MacDonald said.

Officers spotted Heath's car Monday afternoon and chased him for about 20 minutes before he
crashed. Officials said Heath got out of the car, and there was an exchange of gunfire. Heath died
at the scene, and a gun was found next to his body, MacDonald said.

Deborah Haynes-Whitehead told WMUR-T V she and her husband were in their truck and first
thought they were witnessing a car crash. But then she saw a man with a gun getting out of the
car. She said police told him to drop the gun but he didn't, and shots were fired.

"I was thinking about my grandson and whether I'd see him again," Haynes-Whitehead said. "And
we slouched down in the truck and just sat and waited for someone to tell us to do something. You
know, we were terrified to move the vehicle."

MacDonald said no one else was hurt in the gunfire. He said Rochester police reported last week
that they had credible information Heath was staying in in the town, had several guns and had "no
intention of going to jail."

MacDonald said two Rochester officers and two state troopers were on the scene at the time of
the shooting. It wasn't clear who fired their weapons, or who fired first. All four are on
administrative leave.

Maine State Police said Heath was wanted for a June 11 car chase. Maine State Police spokesman
Steve McCausland said that Heath, who had ties to Sanford, Maine, and Rochester, led police along
route 202 from Sanford to Lebanon, Maine.

Sanford police had tried to pull over Heath's car. McCausland said police knew Heath had an arrest
warrant issued for him out of New Hampshire on a drug charge.

McCausland said that police chased the car for a few miles, but stopped because of concern over
public safety. He said Heath fled on foot and was likely picked up. Police later tracked down
Heath's car to a Lebanon address.

Court records in New Hampshire show Heath had a record dating back to 1997 on charges

including misdemeanor trespassing and criminal threatening.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 