Body camera debate rolls on - Concord Monitor (NH) - September 16,
2018 - page 1
September 16, 2018 | Concord Monitor (NH) | CAITLIN ANDREWS | Page 1

Monitor staff

T he video shows a man on the ground, rolling away from his vehicle as police sirens blare in the
background.

Multiple gunshots ring out as two Rochester police officers and two state troopers open fire, killing
Doug las H eath.
Doug las H eath

T he 23-second video that spread rapidly online gave the public a glimpse of Heath’s fatal
encounter with police on Aug. 21 after a chase ended when Heath’s car crashed near Oak Street
and Gonic Road in Rochester. But the clip didn’t come from the police officers at the scene.
Instead, it came from a witness who filmed it from inside a nearby vehicle.

T he Attorney General’s office has said the video is being reviewed as part of its investigation and
may not tell the whole story. But unless the Rochester police cruiser’s in-car cameras and
microphones captured the incident – and the state releases the material – it may be all the public
gets to see of New Hampshire’s most recent police-involved shooting.

Video technology has become so ubiquitous that virtually everyone with a cellphone is equipped
with a video camera. But many police departments in New Hampshire – including the State Police –
are not equipped with cameras, either on officer’s bodies or in their police cruisers.

T he Rochester police cruisers are equipped with video cameras and microphones, but the footage
they captured has not been released while the Attorney General’s office investigates the shooting.
Rochester police officers don’t use body cameras.

After years of unsuccessful legislative attempts to get State Police to use cameras, Col. Chris
Wagner has thrown his support behind getting cameras into state police vehicles, but not having
troopers wear body cameras.

“I do think they bring tremendous value. T hey offer a level of transparency, and we have a
responsibility in serving the public’s interest,” Wagner said. “... I would support, specifically, getting
in-car cameras.”

His reasons are two-fold. One is cost: Wagner said his department spent the better part of this
year studying the cost of implementing either body or cruiser cameras. T o get a program up and
running would cost close to $2 million, he said, and keeping it going would cost $1 million annually.

T he Monitor asked for any documents related to the study of camera use, but has received none

so far. A Department of Safety lawyer said it could take up to 30 days to determine which
documents could be publicly released.

Wagner views cruiser cameras as being a better value, saying they are almost always attached to
the trooper using the vehicle, can record audio and video in the front and back of the vehicle and
offer a wider view of a situation.

He also said cruiser cameras are more reliable; they stay in one spot, and unlike body cameras, are
unlikely to be obscured by body parts or clothing or fall off.

Still, Wagner wouldn’t say if he would ask for funding for the cameras in the upcoming two-year
state budget cycle.

Wagner said waiting to implement the technology isn’t a bad thing.

“Not understanding (body cameras) is the biggest mistake agencies make,” he said. “T hey feel
obligated, listening to the national conversation, to get the technology without understanding it;
that could be more detrimental to the department.”

T he full implication of the technology “still isn’t understood,” Wagner continued. “T here’s this idea
that they are the end-all, be-all, but there are still limitations. T he technology isn’t by itself going to
solve all our problems.”

Last year, Wagner said he could not comment on whether body cameras help prove his officers’
actions are justified in instances where they use deadly force. Past efforts

Of the six New England states, only New Hampshire and Rhode Island state police do not currently
use cameras in any form.

Massachusetts, Connecticut and Vermont have started equipping their state police forces with
body cameras this summer.

Vermont recently outfitted its Tactical Services Unit with cameras and is “committed to pursuing
body cameras for every trooper in the field,” said Vermont State Police’s public information officer
Adam Silverman. T he department has had cameras in its cruisers and microphones for its troopers
for “many years,” and engaged in a pilot program with body cameras two years ago.

Maine does not have body cameras in their state police forces but does have cameras in its
cruisers, said Maine state police spokesman Stephen McCausland.

New Hampshire State police were given equipment to run a pilot program with three body
cameras on loan from Taser International in 2015. But, the program never got off the ground and
the cameras were returned unused as police cited a lack of framework for their use and an
unresolved discussion about privacy and storage concerns.

T he state has since developed guidelines around body camera use and how long footage is
expected to be stored before it can be overwritten or deleted. But when it comes to implementing

the equipment, Rep. Renny Cushing, D-Hampton, said, “In the classic New Hampshire way, there’s
not any money that’s been provided for it.”

Cushing sponsored House Bill 1730 this past legislative session, which would have established the
Public Safety Enhancement Fund by creating “prestige” vanity plates out of any plate with four
digits or less. T he plates would cost $40 and the money would go into a fund managed by the
state’s Department of Justice. Police departments would be able to apply for grants to get body
cameras.

T he bill was killed in early February after the House’s Criminal Justice and Public Safety Committee
found the majority of the plates would come from the elderly or veterans, and that the money
would not be enough to support the program.

Cushing said he plans to try again next session.

“People recognize it as a valuable tool that protects police and seems to put everyone on their
best behavior,” he said. “People aren’t willing to pay the public dollars for it.”

Cushing said he wants to incentivize police departments to get body cameras and thinks municipal
insurers should, too, saying investing in body cameras creates fewer lawsuits and increases public
satisfaction with police departments.

“It’s an interesting issue because it transcends. It doesn’t become a partisan issue,” he said. “Public
safety is one of those few areas where there isn’t a partisan divide.”

If departments pushed for cameras, Cushing was confident the Legislature would be “responsive”
to finding a way to provide them.

“If the agency itself is interested, it’s their responsibility to step up and ask,” he said.

As of two years ago, 10 police departments in the state had body cameras. Weare and Dunbarton
have had cameras for some time.

A few departments have made strides towards adding the technology this year: Portsmouth is
mulling adding cameras, Hanover police added the technology this summer, and Claremont police
said they would bring cameras online this fall. A national debate

T he effect body cameras have on policing is still being studied.

An October study by T he Lab @ DC, an extension of the District of Columbia Mayor Muriel
Bowsers administration, found the use of body cameras did not result in large-scale shifts in police
behavior or reductions in the use of force or complaints.

Using a sample size of 2,224 Metropolitan Police Department officers in Washington, D.C. – some
equipped with cameras, some not – they found over the course of 18 months that while the
presence of body cameras may have increased reports of use of force from police officers, the
amount of use of force remains the same. Cameras also had no impact on general police activity,

such as writing tickets, making arrests and responding to calls, nor on the outcomes of cases
prosecuted.

T he study also notes other police officers not equipped with body cameras may alter their
behavior in the presence of another officer with a camera, a factor that would be hard to measure
when looking at the control group.

“Our experiment suggests that we should recalibrate our expectations of BWCs (body-worn
cameras),” the study states. “Law enforcement agencies … considering adopting BWCs should not
expect dramatic reductions in use of force or complaints, or other large-scale shifts in police
behavior, solely from the deployment of this technology.”

And whether cameras affect public perception and trust of police is also up for debate, according
to an August 2017 study by the Urban Institute, a nonprofit research organization that looks at
public policy.

T he study followed 60 police officers in an “economically and socially diverse city” in the
southwestern United States – some of whom were equipped with cameras and told to follow a
script when interacting with the public, others equipped with cameras with no script, and some with
no cameras – and found body cameras do affect the perceptions of community members who
interact with the police, “but those effects are largely dictated by the officers’ behavior.”

T hey also found police who had to tell members of the public they were being recorded were more
likely to turn their cameras on, while officers responding to more calls for service activated them
less often.

“T hese findings also suggest that BWCs are not a simple ‘plug-and-play’ policy solution; significant
variations across officers and circumstances affect the potential benefits of BWCs,” the study
concludes.

Devon Chaffee, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of New Hampshire, said
body cameras specifically are viewed as possible tools for accountability and transparency.

But that’s only if a state has use and privacy protection guidelines accompanying them. T he ACLU-
NH was part of the effort to draft such measures in 2016.

“Body cameras are not going to improve community relations if the public doesn’t have confidence
that footage is accurate,” she said.(Material from the Associated Press was used in this report.
Caitlin Andrews can be reached at 369-3309, candrews@cmonitor.com or on T witter at
@ActualCAndrews.)

Copyrig ht, 2018, Concord Monitor

 