
 
OAKLAND >>Professional boxer Karim Mayfield said his Earth was shaken up, but it wasn't because of the recent

earthquake felt in the Bay Area. 

Through social media posts, Mayfield, 37, a welterweight, said that his little brother Shaleem Tindle, 28, of Oakland,

was the man fatally shot by BART police officers Wednesday afternoon. 

"My heart is aching right now, my little brother Shaleem was just murdered by BART police in West Oakland

yesterday," Mayfield wrote on Thursday. 

two brothers when they were children. 

Since then, Mayfield, of San Francisco, has posted other photos on his Instagram account, including some of the

"My Earth was shook b4 the earthquake last night," Mayfield said. "Rest in Paradise lil bra." 

Police say that Tindle was shot about 4:41 p.m. by BART police across from the West Oakland station on the 1400

block of Seventh Street when he refused to drop a gun. Another man, identified only as an Oakland resident, had

been in a struggle with Tindle and was also wounded. Oakland police, who are lead investigators in the case, said

they are still trying to determine who shot him. 

A woman who identified herself as Laquisha Stanley told reporters at the scene Wednesday night that Tindle had

been arguing with the other man, whom she said was a friend of hers, and that Tindle was the one who shot her

friend in the leg. 

A pistol was recovered at the 

scene. 

Besides Mayfield, other social media has been posted of the incident. One user on Twitter showed a video of the

scene after Tindle was shot. He appeared lying on the ground as police handcuffed another man. A woman who

seemed to know him, hysterical, appeared to try to give him CPR. The video, which was up on Thursday night by

Ebrahim Aseem, has since been removed from his Twitter account. Aseem said his cousin had been shot. 

The name of the BART officer has not been released, but police said he was wearing a body camera that captured

Mayfield participated in the Olympic trials for the 2004 U.S. team, and is the former North American Boxing

Staff writers George Kelly and Harry Harris contributed to this report. Contact Angela Ruggiero at 510-293-2469. 

what happened. 

Organization junior welterweight champion. 

Credit: Angela Ruggiero, STAFF WRITER 

Illustration 

Caption: PHOTO: Oakland police investigate the scene of a fatal shooting on Seventh and Chester streets near the

West Oakland BART station in Oakland on Wednesday. (JANE TYSKA /STAFF) 
 
 
