
 
OAKLAND >>The name of a BART officer involved in a fatal shooting last week was released Wednesday by

authorities. 

BART Officer Joseph Mateu fatally shot Shaleem Tindle, 28, of Oakland near the West Oakland BART station on

Jan. 3, according to Oakland police, who are lead investigators on the case. 

Mateu, who is on paid leave during the investigation, was initially hired as a community service assistant in May

2003, according to a BART spokeswoman. He was sworn in as a police officer in November 2005 and promoted to

senior police officer in January 2010. 

was also released Wednesday. 

Tindle was shot after refusing to drop a gun he was holding, police said. A photo of a gun recovered at the scene

Tindle's family has retained attorney John Burris, who said Wednesday he is investigating whether Tindle's civil

rights were violated. Burris viewed Tindle's body and said there are wounds on his upper right chest, lower right hip

and up to three smaller wounds on his back. 

"I'm trying to determine which are entry wounds and which are exit wounds," the attorney said.The Alameda County

Coroner's Office will determine the cause of death and where Tindle was struck by gunfire, authorities said. 

Another man, identified only as an Oakland resident, had been in a struggle with Tindle and was also wounded.

Oakland police said they are still trying to determine who shot him. 

The shooting happened about 4:41 p.m. in the 1400 block of Seventh Street, across from the BART station. 

Police said the BART officer was at the station in full uniform when he heard gunshots and saw the two men

struggling with each other across the street. One of the men held a gun, police said. 

The officer went across the street and tried to get the man with the gun to drop the weapon before the shooting,

Oakland police said. The BART officer was not hurt. 

Both wounded men were taken to a hospital where Tindle later died. The other man was treated and released. 

Staff writer George Kelly contributed to this story. Contact Harry Harris at 510-208-6443 and David DeBolt at 510-

Caption: Staff file photo Oakland police investigate the scene of a fatal shooting at Seventh and Chester streets

near the West Oakland BART station on Jan. 3. One man was killed and another injured in a BART officer-involved

208-6453. 

Illustration 

Credit: Harry Harris and David DeBolt. Staff writers 

shooting, authorities said. 
 
 
