
 
ROUND ROCK - Police officers shot and killed a man in Round Rock early Saturday after responding to reports of a

prowler, officials said. They said the man fired at the officers when they tried to arrest him. 

Police received a call about 3 a.m. that a man dressed in black was walking around cars near the 1900 block of

Red Rock Drive. The two arriving officers found a man who matched the description and discovered that he had an

active warrant for his arrest, officials said. 

When the officers tried to arrest him, officials said, there was a struggle and the man drew a gun and fired at them.

They said the officers, who were not hit, fired back and shot the man. 

He was taken to a hospital in critical condition, officials said, but he was pronounced dead Saturday night. Police

identified him as 21-year-old Richard Rangel. 

treated at the scene for minor injuries. 

Police would not say what Rangel's warrant was for or give further information about him. The officers were

The two officers, whose names were not released, will remain on leave pending an investigation, as per protocol.

They were wearing body cameras at the time of the shooting, a police spokesman said. 

The last officer-involved shooting involving a Round Rock officer was in 2013, according to a police spokesman. 

Ofelia Melendez, who lives across the street from the site of the shooting, said she heard from her neighbors that

their security system had awoken them and they had seen the man near their car. They then saw him on

surveillance cameras walking from their house to Melendez's house, and thought he had a gun. 

The neighbors tried to call with a warning, but Melendez and her family slept through the call and the shooting,

awakening only to the hubbub of police outside. Their cars did not show signs of a break-in, she said. 

"It's scary," said Melendez, who has lived on Red Rock Drive 12 years. "The neighbors are all asking on this email

app, Do you know what happened?' " 

Others walking their dogs early Saturday echoed her shock when they saw police tape blocking a side street. 

Police had taped off the street alongside the home whose residents tried to warn Melendez and along a cluster of

The house has signs warning of a home security system with surveillance. A woman who answered the door there

Melendez said she remembers a rash of burglaries about eight years ago, but said otherwise it's a quiet

neighborhood. The incident Saturday should serve as a wake-up call to communicate with one another, Melendez

"Our neighborhood is still really safe; we just have to be more vigilant of our security and neighbors, so when

something like this happens we can call each other," she said. 

bushes and trees in the backyard.  

declined to comment. 

said. 

Contact Elizabeth Findell  

at 512-445-3696. 

Illustration 

Caption: A Round Rock Police Crime Scene Unit worker documents evidence from an early morning shooting by

officers Saturday. The officers were responding to a call about 3 a.m. that a man dressed in black was walking

around cars near the 1900 block of Red Rock Drive. RALPH BARRERA / AMERICAN-STATESMANOfficers remain at

the scene Saturday in Round Rock. The officers who responded to the initial call said they found a man who

matched the description and discovered he had a warrant for his arrest. RALPH BARRERA / AMERICAN-

STATESMAN 
 
 
