'Suicidal' 16-year-old shot by police in Twin - Duluth News Tribune (MN)
- July 14, 2018 - page A4
July 14, 2018 | Duluth News Tribune (MN) | Barry Amundson Forum News Service | Page A4

CHANHASSEN, Minn. -- A suicidal 16-year-old with apparent mental health issues is dead after an
officer-involved shooting outside his Chanhassen home Friday morning, July 13, according to the
Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension.

T he BCA said Carver County deputies in the southwest T win Cities suburb were called to the home
at about 10 a.m. by a mother who said her son was suicidal and was threatening her with knives
and a baseball bat.

Deputies encountered the teenager and deployed a stun gun. Later during the incident, two
deputies fired their weapons, striking the teen. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

Multiple law enforcement agencies were at the home, which is in a wooded area along busy
Minnesota Highway 7 just south of Lake Minnetonka in the western suburbs of Minneapolis.

Family members and friends were seen openly crying in the driveway.

One deputy was transported to a Chaska medical center for non-life-threatening injuries.

It was not stated by the BCA if the teen had a gun.

T he BCA is gathering evidence in the case and conducting interviews with witnesses. Body
cameras may have captured portions of the incident, the BCA said.

T he BCA said it would identify the deputies who fired their weapons once both officers have been
interviewed. T hey were placed on standard administrative leave.

T he agency also said the teen would be identified by the Midwest Regional Medical Examiner's
Office once an autopsy has been completed.

However, KST P-T V, citing a family friend, identified the teen as Archer Amorosi
Minnetonka High School.

Archer Amorosi, a student at

School district officials declined to comment until they had more information from authorities.

T he investigation's findings will ultimately be turned over to the Carver County attorney's office for
review.

T he Chanhassen incident is the second recent officer-involved shooting death in the T win Cities.

T hurman Blevins Jr., 31, was killed June 23 after Minneapolis police officers responded to a 911 call
of a man shooting a gun into the air and ground.

Authorities said two Minneapolis officers fired their guns after chasing Blevins into an alley on the
city's north side. T hey said a gun was recovered at the scene, but some community members
have disputed that Blevins was armed.

T he BCA is also handling that case.

T he St. Paul Pioneer Press contributed to this report

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Duluth News Tribune

 