Chanhassen - Deputies ID'd in teen's fatal - St. Paul Pioneer Press (MN) -
July 18, 2018 - page A2
July 18, 2018 | St. Paul Pioneer Press (MN) | Kristi Belcamino kbelcamino@pioneerpress.com | Page A2

Authorities on Tuesday released the names of the Carver County sheriff's deputies involved in
fatally shooting a 16-year-old Chanhassen boy Friday along with details that revealed the teen ran
at the deputies with a hatchet and handgun-style BB gun.

According to the Minnesota Department of Public Safety's Bureau of Criminal Apprehension,
Carver County sheriff's Cpl. Jacob Hodge, Cpl. Josh Baker and deputy Travis Larson responded to a
911 call Friday morning in the 6400 block of Oriole Avenue, just south of Minnesota 7.

A woman had called reporting that her son, now identified as 16-year-old Archer Amorosi
suicidal and threatening her with knives and a baseball bat.

Archer Amorosi, was

According to the BCA, the preliminary investigation indicates the following:

When deputies arrived, they ordered Amorosi to come out of the house, but he refused.

Deputies fired a Taser stun gun and pepper spray through a window, but they were "ineffective."
T he deputies were outside when Amorsi ran out of the front door holding a hatchet and what
appeared to be a handgun.

Deputies "continued verbal commands and again deployed a T aser, but it was ineffective,"
according to the BCA.

Hodge and Larson then fired their guns. Amorosi was shot multiple times and died at the scene.

A hatchet and a handgun-style BB gun was found near his body, according to the BCA.

Hodge, who has been with the sheriff's office for 18 years, and Larson, who has been on the force
for two years, are both on standard administrative leave.

Baker, who discharged his Taser during the incident, has been with the sheriff's office for 11 years.

Larson was treated and released from the Chaska hospital for unspecified injuries he received
during the incident.

T he Midwest Medical Examiner's Office on Sunday said that Amorosi died of multiple gunshot
wounds.

Portions of the incident were caught by officer body cameras and squad car cameras. T he BCA
investigation is continuing and all findings will be turned over to the Carver County attorney's office

for review.

Amorosi would have been a junior at Minnetonka High School, where played football and lacrosse.

According to the Associated Press, the Star Tribune reported this week that Amorosi's father had
called 911 on Thursday to report his son had become enraged over losing his car privileges. T he
father told a dispatcher his son had not taken his medication for depression.

Amorosi's funeral will be held Wednesday morning.

Copyrig ht 2018 Saint Paul Pioneer Press

 