BCA: Teen was armed with BB gun, hatchet - Report - Star Tribune:
Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) - July 18, 2018 - page 01B
July 18, 2018 | Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) | LIZ SAWYER; STAFF WRITER | Page 01B

A suicidal Chanhassen teenager shot and killed last week by Carver County sheriff’s deputies was
armed with a BB gun, according to the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension.

T he report released Tuesday also names the deputies involved.

Archer Amorosi
Archer Amorosi, 16, had a handgun-style BB gun and hatchet when he was shot multiple times
Friday after a brief standoff outside his family home, according to the preliminary report.

Carver County sheriff’s deputies went to the home after Amorosi’s mother called 911 to report
that her son was suicidal and threatening her with knives and a baseball bat, the BCA said.
According to 911 dispatch audio, Amorosi suffered from mental health issues, and police had
responded to a similar call at the home the day before.

T he BCA report said Amorosi refused repeated orders to leave the house, while a Taser and
pepper spray deployed through a window were ineffective and the deputies remained outside.

“At one point Amorosi ran out the front door of the home holding a hatchet and what appeared to
be a handgun. Deputies continued verbal commands and again deployed a T aser, but it was
ineffective,” the BCA said in a statement.

T wo of the officers fired their weapons, and Amorosi was pronounced dead at the scene. BCA
investigators recovered a hatchet and a handgun-style BB gun from near his body, the report said.

Body cameras and dash-camera video from one of the five responding agencies “may have
recorded portions of the incident,” the BCA said. T he officers who fired their guns are on standard
administrative leave. T he BCA will turn its findings over to the Carver County Attorney’s Office for
review.

Officers identified

T he BCA also identified the three officers:

• Cpl. Jacob Hodge fired his gun. He has been with the sheriff’s office for 18 years.

• Deputy Travis Larson fired his gun and discharged his Taser and pepper spray. Larson has been
with the department for two years.

• Cpl. Josh Baker discharged his T aser. Baker has been with the department for 11 years.

Larson was taken to a medical center in Chaska for minor injuries. He was treated and released.

Amorosi was a student at Minnetonka High School, where he played lacrosse and football. Funeral
services are scheduled for Wednesday at Westwood Community Church in Excelsior.

According to data provided by the Carver County Sheriff’s Office, the total of annual mental health
service calls increased steadily over a 10-year period, from 129 in 2005 to 384 in 2015.

Liz Sawyer • 612-673-4648

Copyrig ht 2018 Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities

 