Teen shot by deputies had outburst day before - - Star Tribune:
Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) - July 16, 2018 - page 10A
July 16, 2018 | Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) | PAUL WALSH; STAFF WRITER | Page 10A

T he teenager fatally shot outside his family’s Chanhassen home last week by sheriff’s deputies
went into a rage a day earlier after his parents took away his car, prompting a call to 911.

Archer Amorosi, 16, died of multiple gunshots fired by Carver County sheriff’s deputies late Friday
Archer Amorosi
morning, the Midwest Medical Examiner’s Office said Sunday.

It was the first confirmation from authorities that Amorosi was the person who died outside the
house in the 6400 block of Oriole Avenue after a woman there called 911, saying she feared her
son was suicidal.

Amorosi was a lacrosse and football player who was set to begin his junior year at Minnetonka
High School.

T he state Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA), which is investigating the shooting, said Amorosi
was brandishing weapons at deputies and others.

T he woman who called 911 also said her son was threatening her with knives and a baseball bat,
according to the BCA.

When deputies arrived they first used a Taser before two of them fired their weapons. Amorosi
was pronounced dead at the scene. Body cameras and dash camera video from one of the five
responding agencies may have recorded portions of the incident, according to the BCA.

Both officers involved in the shooting are on standard administrative leave, and the BCA will turn its
findings over to the Carver County Attorney’s Office for review. T he officers have not been
identified.

Police records indicated that the teen’s father had called 911 a day earlier to report that his son had
become enraged after losing his car privileges. T he man also told the dispatcher that his son had
not taken his medication for depression.

In a letter from Minnetonka High School to students and parents, Principal Jeff Erickson said
Amorosi was talented as an athlete, and in the classroom.

“T his situation is heartbreaking, and I want to extend my thoughts and prayers to Archer’s parents
and family, his friends, and the entire Minnetonka High School community,” Erickson wrote. “I know
this situation is particularly devastating to those of you who knew Archer well.”

T he principal also said that counselors and other staff will be on hand Monday at the school for

anyone needing assistance.

Erickson’s T witter account now displays a photo of Amorosi with his lacrosse teammates
celebrating after their third-place finish in the state tournament four weeks before the shooting.
T he team’s T witter account posted a photo of a memorial to Amorosi that includes his jerseys,
lacrosse equipment and two illuminated candles.

Paul Walsh • 612-673-4482

Copyrig ht 2018 Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities

 