GBI investigates officer shooting death of man in - Athens Banner-
Herald (GA) - July 27, 2018
July 27, 2018 | Athens Banner-Herald (GA) | Wayne Ford

Georgia Bureau of Investigation agents are reviewing actions by officers in Walton County who
shot and killed a man Thursday on the outskirts of Social Circle.

William Earnest B rooks .
T he shooting by several officers resulted in the death of 43-year-old William Earnest B rooks

T he GBI released a statement Friday noting that at about 2:25 p.m. Thursday Walton County
sheriff's deputies responded to a 911 call that a man was riding an AT V at a Social Circle home on
Fairplay Road. T he caller told 911 that he had contacted the homeowner, who said that someone
should be there doing yard work and not riding an AT V.

When a deputy arrived, he contacted Brooks, who fled and "a foot chase ensued followed by a
physical altercation in a field a short distance behind the house," according to the GBI.

Preliminary information suggest that the deputy was overpowered by Brooks. T he deputy
withdrew his firearm and fired once, but it is unknown if Brooks was wounded, the GBI said.

Brooks took the deputy's gun and fled deeper into the woods, according to the report.

Walton sheriff's deputies, Social Circle police, Georgia State Patrol troopers and Department of
Natural Resources rangers responded.

T he GBI said Brooks was spotted near a lake and that a GSP helicopter trooper observed Brooks
turn toward the shoreline and brandish a weapon.

At this time, Walton County deputies and one Social Circle officer fired at Brooks, who was killed at
the scene, according to the report.

"Six deputies and one Social Circle police officer, so seven total [fired at the suspect]," Walton
County Sheriff Joe Chapman told Fox 5 T V of Atlanta.

T he GBI said it's unclear if the man fired his weapon at the law enforcement officers.

T he deputy involved in the original altercation with Brooks was treated and released from a local
hospital, the GBI said.

T he GBI will turn the results of its investigation over to the Walton County District Attorney's
Office.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Athens Banner-Herald, All Rights Reserved.

 