POLICE IDENTIFY BART OFFICER INVOLVED IN FATAL - East Bay Times
(CA) - January 11, 2018 - page 2B
January 11, 2018 | East Bay Times (CA) | Harry Harris and David DeBolt. Staff writers | Page 2B

OAKLAND >> T he name of a BART  officer involved in a fatal shooting last week was released
Wednesday by authorities.

BART  Officer Joseph Mateu fatally shot Shaleem T indle
BART  station on Jan. 3, according to Oakland police, who are lead investigators on the case.

Shaleem T indle, 28, of Oakland near the West Oakland

Mateu, who is on paid leave during the investigation, was initially hired as a community service
assistant in May 2003, according to a BART  spokeswoman. He was sworn in as a police officer in
November 2005 and promoted to senior police officer in January 2010.

T indle was shot after refusing to drop a gun he was holding, police said. A photo of a gun
recovered at the scene was also released Wednesday.

T indle's family has retained attorney John Burris, who said Wednesday he is investigating whether
T indle's civil rights were violated. Burris viewed T indle's body and said there are wounds on his
upper right chest, lower right hip and up to three smaller wounds on his back.

"I'm trying to determine which are entry wounds and which are exit wounds," the attorney said.T he
Alameda County Coroner's Office will determine the cause of death and where Tindle was struck by
gunfire, authorities said.

Another man, identified only as an Oakland resident, had been in a struggle with Tindle and was
also wounded. Oakland police said they are still trying to determine who shot him.

T he shooting happened about 4:41 p.m. in the 1400 block of Seventh Street, across from the
BART  station.

Police said the BART  officer was at the station in full uniform when he heard gunshots and saw the
two men struggling with each other across the street. One of the men held a gun, police said.

T he officer went across the street and tried to get the man with the gun to drop the weapon
before the shooting, Oakland police said. T he BART  officer was not hurt.

Both wounded men were taken to a hospital where Tindle later died. T he other man was treated
and released.

Staff writer George Kelly contributed to this story. Contact Harry Harris at 510-208-6443 and
David DeBolt at 510-208-6453.

Copyrig ht © 2018 East Bay Times.

 