The Latest: Police say suspect began fire, shot at - Associated Press
State Wire: Maryland (MD) - January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maryland (MD)

LIT T LE ORLEANS, Md. (AP) — T he Latest on a standoff that ended with a suspect dead and two
officers wounded (all times local):

12:30 p.m.

Maryland State Police say a standoff that ended this morning with a suspect dead and two
troopers wounded began with a domestic violence call just before midnight.

Officers say the man's wife told police that they were arguing when her husband pulled out a gun
and said "this ends today." She said they struggled and fell and the gun went off before she
escaped to a neighbor's house to call for help.

T he police statement says troopers established a perimeter around the house in Little Orleans,
Allegany County. Police said he refused to surrender and said he was not coming out.

As a Special Tactical Assault Team Element began to enter the home, police say the suspect
ignited a fire and then shot at the troopers, who fired back.

T he officers were taken to a trauma center in Baltimore with leg wounds and later released from
the hospital. T he suspect was pronounced dead at a nearby medical center.

___

12:12 p.m.

A man has been shot dead and two state troopers have been wounded following a standoff in
Maryland.

T he Cumberland T imes-News reported Friday the standoff began late Thursday at a home in Little
Orleans, Allegany County, which is near the Pennsylvania border.

T he troopers were flown about 120 miles (193 kilometers) to Baltimore to be treated for leg
wounds at a trauma center. Maryland State Police said the troopers were conscious and alert.

William Charles M ackenzie.
Maryland State Police identified the suspect as 52--year-old William Charles M ackenzie

Police said the incident began with an argument between Mackenzie and his wife. He allegedly
pulled out a handgun, telling her "this ends today."

A struggle ensued. Husband and wife fell to the ground and the gun went off. She escaped,
running to a neighbor's house and calling the police.

T he police response was large, with tactical units of camoflauged and well-armed troopers
surrounding the home. T he troopers tried to communicate with Mackenzie using a loudspeaker
from an armored vehicle, but they said he refused to surrender.

T actical assault team officers finally entered the residence Friday morning. State police said
Mackenzie fired at the troopers, hitting their "lower extremities" before they returned fire, killing
him.

As the troopers entered, a fire had started inside the home. Police said they believe Mackenzie
started the blaze, which fire personnel extinguished.

___

Information from: Cumberland (Md.) T imes-News, http://www.times-news.com/timesnew.html

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 