Police: Standoff ends with man dead, 2 troopers - Carroll County Times
(Westminster, MD) - January 27, 2018 - page 6A
January 27, 2018 | Carroll County Times (Westminster, MD) | Kevin Rector | Page 6A

LIT T LE ORLEANS - A man in a domestic dispute with his wife was fatally shot by a Maryland State
Police tactical team after he shot and wounded two of the unit's members as they entered his
Allegany County home during a barricade situation early Friday morning, police said.

T he man, whom police as William Charles M ackenzie
transferred for treatment to the Washington County Medical Center, police said.

William Charles M ackenzie, 66, was pronounced dead after being

T he two troopers who were shot, each in their lower extremities, were both conscious and alert as
they were flown to University of Maryland Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore in a police medevac
helicopter, police said.

State troopers first responded to the couple's home in the 11300 block of High Germany Road in
Little Orleans, an isolated town between Hagerstown and Cumberland in Western Maryland, at
about 11 p.m. Thursday for a domestic call, police said.

When police arrived, the man's wife told them that she and her husband had been "engaged in an
argument" when the man allegedly brandished a handgun and threatened her with it, saying, "T his
ends today," police said.

T he man "refused police requests to surrender and repeatedly said he was not coming out," police
said.

Sometime early Friday, members of the state police Special Tactical Assault Team Element, or
ST AT E, team entered the home, and the exchange of gunfire occurred, police said.

T here was also a fire in the home, which police believe the suspect started around the time of their
entry.

T he state police homicide unit is investigating the incident. T he results of the investigation will be
turned over to the Allegany County State's Attorney's Office for review, police said.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Carroll County Times, Westminster, MD. All rights reserved.

 