INVESTIGATION CONTINUES AFTER 2 TROOPERS SHOT, - US Fed News
(USA) - January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | US Fed News (USA)

LIT T LE ORLEANS, Md., Jan. 26 -- T he Maryland State Police issued the following news release:

Police continue to investigate an overnight barricade in Allegany County that injured two troopers
and fatally wounded the suspect after a seven hour standoff with police.

After firing multiple rounds at police and injuring two state troopers, William Charles M ackenzie
William Charles M ackenzie,
66, of Little Orleans, was fatally wounded by police during an overnight barricade in Allegany
County. EMS provided medical treatment to Mackenzie on the scene. He was transported to the
WMHS, Western Maryland Health System, in Cumberland, where he was later pronounced
deceased.

T he two troopers who were shot during the incident are not being identified at this time. T hey are
members of the Special Tactical Assault Team Element, or ST AT E team. T hey were flown by
Maryland State Police medevac to the University of Maryland R Adams Cowley Shock T rauma
Center in Baltimore, where they were treated for their injuries and later released.

Both troopers were struck by gunfire originating from inside the home. Investigators believe
Mackenzie was alone in the house and in his bedroom when he fired several rounds through a
window toward police on the perimeter. Police believe Mackenzie had multiple firearms in the
home.

Shortly after 11:30 p.m. last night, Maryland State Police at the Cumberland Barrack received a9-1-
1 call from Mackenzie's wife. T he wife informed police that she and her husband had been in an
argument when he threatened her with a gun at their home on the 11,000 block of High Germany
Road.

She said a struggle ensued between the two of them and they fell to the ground. As they fell, the
gun reportedly fired at least one round. T he wife was able to escape the residence and run to a
neighboring house approximately 200 yards away to call for help.

Police from Cumberland Barrack and allied police agencies arrived on scene to establish a
perimeter. Police negotiators announced their presence and attempted to make contact with
Mackenzie. Police called his cell phone, but all calls were directed to voicemail.

Members of the ST AT E team used the loudspeaker on their armored vehicle, commanding
Mackenzie to exit the home unarmed. Throughout the night, Mackenzie refused multiple police
requests to surrender and repeatedly said he was not coming out.

Shortly before 7:30 a.m., Mackenzie fired multiple shots from a bedroom window, striking two

members of the ST AT E team who were near the perimeter. Police did not fire in return. Mackenzie
continued to refuse directions to surrender.

According to the ongoing investigation, it was just after 8:30 a.m. and without warning, that
Mackenzie exited the house which appeared to be on fire. Mackenzie brandished a handgun and
pointed toward police, ignoring continued commands to drop the weapon. Police fired and
wounded Mackenzie, disarming him of his weapon. Emergency medical treatment was
immediately provided on the scene. Mackenzie was transported to the Washington County
Regional Medical Center where he was later pronounced deceased.

T he Maryland State Police Homicide Unit is conducting the investigation, as is procedure in police
involved shootings. Investigators have determined a trooper from the Maryland State Police fired
his agency issued firearm. He has been placed on administrative leave, as is procedure pending the
outcome of the investigation. Upon completion, the investigation will be provided to the Allegany
County State's Attorney's Office for review.

Fire personnel on the scene extinguished the fire, with assistance from troopers. T he Office of the
State Fire Marshal leads the investigation into the cause of the fire.

Assistance during this situation was provided by a number of public safety agencies. T hey included
C3I, the Allegany County Sheriff's Office, the Cumberland Police Department, the Little Orleans
Volunteer Fire Department, and State Police from the Cumberland Barrack, Criminal Enforcement
Division, and the Aviation Command.

T he investigation is continuing.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
content.services@htlive.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 US Fed News, via HT Dig ital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved.

 