FAMILY OF 18-YEAR-OLD KILLED BY POLICE DISPUTES - Daily Review,
The (Hayward, CA) - April 20, 2018 - page 10A
April 20, 2018 | Daily Review, The (Hayward, CA) | Joseph Geha, jgeha@bayareanewsgroup.com | Page 10A

Family and friends of 18-year-old Nathaniel Prasad
Fremont police officers last week, held a vigil in his honor Thursday near the intersection where he
died.

N athaniel Prasad of Hayward, who was fatally shot by seven

T hey said they don't believe the police version that Prasad pointed a gun at officers after running
from a traffic stop at Fremont Boulevard and Nicolet Avenue the evening of April 12.

Police said Prasad fired at officers, noting three expended shell casings were found in a gun next to
Prasad's body.

Along with civil rights lawyer John Burris, the family called for transparency from authorities.

"We keep seeing what's written about him and it does not seem to fit how he was," said Prasad's
father, Danny Prasad. He noted his son had graduated high school through independent study and
was "waiting for his gown" while looking at colleges.

"T he police, they're saying, ‘T hese are the type of people we need to take off the streets,' and all
those other hurtful comments," Danny Prasad said. "He was just a scared little kid."

Prasad's cousin Ryan Lal, 17, of Hayward, said police should release all of the video they have of
the incident.

"When the evidence is released that shows where he had a gun, and he actually pointed it on the
body cams, then I'll believe it," he said.

Janna Juarez, 16, of Fremont, said she had been dating Prasad the past year and a half and news of
his death was her "worst nightmare."

"I never thought anything like this would happen," Juarez said, adding she's mad at everybody
involved, including Prasad.

"I'm mad that he ran, that he just didn't cooperate," she said.

Juarez said she hopes the vigil will show that Prasad was a "normal person" and that he was loved.

"He had friends, he had family, he had people to support him, who cared about him. He was not
nothing, he was something to people."

Prasad's mother, Evelyn, was driving with her son in the car when they were pulled over by police

near Nicolet Drive last week, Danny Prasad said.

T hough she kept her hands on the wheel and didn't move from the car after pulling over, Danny
Prasad said police later shot a bullet through the windshield, just missing her.

Burris, who said he has been retained by the family, sued the city of Fremont and the police
department over the fatal shooting of 16-year-old Elena Mondragon in Hayward last year.

He said in the "interest of transparency and accountability," police should release all video they
have of the last week's shooting to the public, or at least to the family.

"T hey're in a lot of pain, a lot of anguish. Stories are being told about their son that they don't
believe are true. And they have real questions about how their son was shot down," Burris said.

"I don't think a family should have to suffer. If there's evidence that indicates what happened, the
family ought to be able to see that so that they have some certainty about what happened to him
on that day," he said.

"I don't know that there's illegal conduct or not, I don't know that," Burris said. "But I do want to
know what happened, and I want to help the family understand and appreciate what happened."

Contact Joseph Geha at 408-707-1292.

(c) 2018 The Daily Review. All rights reserved. Reproduced with the permission of Media NewsGroup, Inc. by NewsBank, Inc.

 