Indian-American teen shot dead after armed - News India-Times (New
York, NY) - April 20, 2018
April 20, 2018 | News India-Times (New York, NY) | Staff Writer

An 18-year old Indian-American from Hayward, California, was fatally shot April 5, by police who
were chasing him because of an earlier police record.

According to an April 19, press release from the Fremont Police Department, on April 5, Fremont
police officers attempted to arrest wanted suspect Nathaniel Prasad
felony firearms possession warrant, a felony probation warrant and a misdemeanor evading arrest
warrant for fleeing from a Fremont School Resource Officer on March 22.

N athaniel Prasad who was wanted on a

T he incident took place April 5, evening, at 6:47 p.m., when the Fremont Police Department's
Street Crimes Unit identified Prasad as a passenger in a vehicle that was being driven by his mother
in the area of Central Ave and Fremont Blvd. T he officers broadcast information over the police
radio about the vehicle and the active warrants and requested marked patrol units to assist with a
traffic stop.

T wo patrol officers responded to the call and stopped the vehicle. Prasad fled from right
passenger side of the car on foot and was given chase. Prasad pulled a firearm from his waist area
and it appears that he fired one to two shots in the direction of the officer, the press release says.
T he officer drew his duty weapon, returned fire and broadcast over the police radio that the
suspect had a gun. T he interaction was captured on video surveillance and was corroborated by
statements of the involved officer and witnesses at the scene, the press release said.

More police officers gathered at the scene, including a police K9 unit. Prasad ran toward the
officers before veering and running south on Fremont Blvd into the oncoming lanes of traffic, the
press release says. T he K9 was deployed as they began to chase Prasad. Three officers from the
Street Crimes Unit and an additional patrol officer also exited their vehicles and began to pursue
Prasad on foot.

During the time the six officers were giving chase, Prasad reportedly pulled a gun from his waist
area, pointed it in the direction of the officers and it appears he fired at least one round, and police
say this interaction is corroborated by the statements of the involved officers, statements of
witnesses, the body worn camera footage and in-car camera footage of the event. In response,
the officers shot in the direction of Prasad, striking him several times, causing him to fall. On the
ground, Prasad still had the weapon in his hand and officers fired additional rounds.

Fremont Fire paramedics arrived, took over medical care, and announced Prasad was deceased
shortly the incident. No officers were injured during the incident.

T he firearm in Prasad's possession was a .22 caliber revolver. When officers examined the weapon
at the scene, it had three spent casings and three empty cylinders. A records check revealed it was

reported stolen, the press release said.

T he Fremont Crimes Against Persons Unit and the Alameda County District Attorney's Office are
independently investigating this incident.

According to the Chapel of the T imes, based in Hayward, California, Prasad was born December
19, 1999. the memorial to Prasad says he died "with his mom as a witness," in Fremont, California.
T he memorial service was scheduled to be held April 14. His leaves behind his father Daniel, and
mother Evelyn, and brother Dylan Prasad.

His biography on the funeral website says Prasad had a "goofy personality", was an Honor Roll
student with perfect attendance. He was diagnosed with an eye condition, Keratoconus, and had
lost all vision on his left eye, and informed he had a good chance of losing the sight of his right eye
as well. He loved to sing and write, and was on the school football and basketball teams.

Copyrig ht, 2018, News India-Times / Desi Talk, All Rights Reserved.

 