DA, defense clash in push to seal records in - Associated Press State
Wire: Tennessee (TN) - February 19, 2019
February 19, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN) | JONATHAN MATTISE Associated Press

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — A prosecutor said Tuesday that family members of an armed black man
who was fatally shot from behind by a white Nashville police officer want a slew of records made
public in the officer's first-degree murder case.

But the attorney for Nashville Officer Andrew Delke responded in court that prosecutors "need to
be careful what they ask for" because 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
see what the defense has.

Daniel H ambrick's family might not want to

Delke, 25, shot Hambrick from behind as he chased him last July. T he shooting sparked an outcry
from Hambrick's family, the local NAACP and others, leading to a November referendum vote that
has created a citizen oversight board for Nashville's police force.

In the hearing Tuesday on whether the records should be sealed, Delke lawyer David Raybin said
Nashville District Attorney General Glenn Funk's preference of publicly filed pretrial discovery
documents would let the case be tried through news coverage. Raybin said the discovery filing
preference breaks with a state Supreme Court ruling that Funk backed.

Raybin said Davidson County Criminal Court in Nashville has been unique in filing pretrial discovery
"all willy-nilly with the public," a "pernicious" practice he said should end. He said that anyone with a
cellphone and an internet connection could disseminate the state's case to the world.

"You try your case in the newspaper by filing all of this stuff with the clerk. Everybody can see
everything," Raybin said. "And, again, I want to suggest that I don't know what's in their discovery.
It's trial by ambush all over again."

Funk said Nashville does have exceptions when cases involve child victims or rape. T he 2016 case
that Raybin referenced involved evidence in the rape case against four former Vanderbilt University
football players.

Funk contended that Delke's case doesn't warrant the same treatment.

"T here has not been a showing by the defense that there is something about this case or a need
for privacy protections similar to those that were needed in the Vanderbilt rape case or child rape
cases," Funk said.

Raybin contended that the prosecution already complicated jury selection in August when it publicly
released surveillance video of the shooting. He said that if the state's case was made public, it
could take a month to find a jury, adding that he doesn't want to have to go to another county to
find impartial jurors.

T he Nashville Fraternal Order of Police, meanwhile, has sought to influence opinion in Delke's favor
through a public relations campaign on the case, including digital advertising.

Among other messaging, one ad claims to show a loaded gun that was pointed at Delke.
Prosecutors have cast doubt on whether Hambrick pointed the gun at the officer.

Judge Monte Watkins said he will rule on the discovery disclosure by early next week.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 