PAWTUCKET - Officers identified in deadly - Providence Journal (RI) -
September 11, 2018 - page A1
September 11, 2018 | Providence Journal (RI) | Amanda Milkovits Journal Staff Writer | Article | Page A1

PAWT UCKET  - T he Pawtucket police have identified the three officers involved in the fatal shooting
of an armed man who they say attacked them on Newport Avenue on Friday morning.

A passing motorist called 911 at 6:10 a.m. when she saw a man bend down to tie his sneaker -
exposing a gun on his belt, according to a dispatch log obtained Monday by T he Journal. As officers
searched for the man described by the caller, Officer Ana C. Vertentes was the first to find him on
Newport Avenue, the Police Department said in a news release Monday.

T he man with the gun was DaShawn Cole
of gun crimes and time in prison.

DaShawn Cole, 28, an ex-convict from the Boston area with a history

When Vertentes tried to "make contact" with Cole, the police say, he attacked her.

Vertentes struggled with Cole, "resulting in her discharging her firearm," police said. T he police said
Cole was still armed when he confronted Officers William P. Briggs and Dianne L. Rittman-
McLaughlin, and they opened fire. (It wasn't clear from police which officers' bullets hit Cole.)

Sgt. Timothy Graham, a department spokesman, said Saturday that several officers tried to save
Cole's life. "T hey performed CPR and also used a med kit to try to stem the bleeding until rescue
arrived," he said in an email. "It is a department policy to provide care as needed as soon as is
practical."

Cole was pronounced dead from gunshot wounds at Rhode Island Hospital.

Vertentes, who was hired in 2016, and Rittman-McLaughlin and Briggs, who were hired in 2010, are
on paid administrative leave, pending an investigation by Pawtucket police, state police and the
attorney general's office, as is customary in officer-involved shootings. T he investigation is
expected to go to a grand jury, which will determine whether the shooting was justified.

T he dispatch log listed other officers who arrived before the first shots were fired: With Vertentes,
Officers Taylor E. Fay and Rui J. Silva arrived at 6:14 a.m., just four minutes after the call. Minutes
later, Briggs, Rittman-McLaughlin and officers Dylan Salvatore and Michael A. Haberek arrived.

At 6:18 a.m., the officers told dispatch they were with the man at the Shell gas station at Newport
Avenue and Slade Street. T hen, officers radioed "shots fired" and called for a rescue.

T he dispatch log is supposed to include all calls received by the Police Department. However, the
original log from Friday morning sent to T he Journal from the clerk's office did not include any
mention of the firearms call and officer-involved shooting. Instead, there was a gap in time from

1:29 a.m. to 6:39 a.m.

After questions from T he Journal, the mayor's office sent the log that included the incident.

T his followed calls Monday morning from the American Civil Liberties Union of Rhode Island for
Pawtucket police to release more information about the fatal shooting.

In recent instances, most departments in Rhode Island have moved swiftly to identify officers and
give an explanation in officer-involved shootings. Providence police made videos from officers'
body cameras and highway surveillance public the day after a fatal shooting on a Route 95 on-
ramp last fall.

Pawtucket police have handled officer-involved shootings differently. While the department soon
identified two officers who fatally shot an armed man in 2012, it waited nearly a week - and after
protests - to talk about an incident and identify the officer who shot and killed a man who had a
realistic-looking BB gun in 2016.

Police Chief Tina Goncalves said little about what happened Friday, except that the three officers
confronted Cole, who she said assaulted one of the officers with the gun. She did not say whether
Cole fired the weapon or what type of gun it was, or how it came into his possession.

T he ACLU wasn't making any judgments about the officers' actions, executive director Steven
Brown said yesterday, but the department's two-paragraph press release Monday "raises more
questions than it answers."

T he wording was ambiguous, Brown said, and the description of the deadly confrontation with
officers was "deliberately and maddeningly vague."

"Reading between the lines, it does not appear that Cole actually brandished his firearm at any
point," Brown said in an email. "It's even unclear whether the officers actually saw the firearm he
had on him when he was first stopped or during the struggle that ensued, or whether they were
just assuming he had one based on the call they received."

T he lack of information stood in contrast to what police disclose in violent crimes involving civilians,
the ACLU said. "T he public deserves much more specific information at this time rather than such
an imprecise and sketchy recounting of the shooting," Brown said.

T here have been 14 deadly police shootings in Rhode Island since 2006; seven involve the
Pawtucket police. T he ACLU called on the state attorney general and Goncalves "to conduct a
thorough review of the Pawtucket Police Department's training and practices to determine the
causes behind this disconcerting track record."

Graham had no comment on the ACLU's call for an investigation of the number of police-involved
shootings in Pawtucket.

-With reports from staff writer T om Mooney

Copyrig ht © 2018 Providence Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 