ACLU-Rhode Island Issues Statement on Fatal - Targeted News Service
(USA) - September 10, 2018
September 10, 2018 | Targeted News Service (USA) | Press Releases

PROVIDENCE, Rhode Island, Sept. 10 -- T he American Civil Liberties Union of Rhode Island issued
the following statement by Executive Director Steven Brown on the fatal shooting of DaShawn
DaShawn
ColeCole by Pawtucket police:

DaShawn Cole was killed by Pawtucket police, yet very

"It has been more than 72 hours since DaShawn Cole
basic information about this tragic incident remains undisclosed. T he names of the officers, how
many shots were fired, the threat faced by the police at the time, even whether the victim fired any
shots himself -- all of this remains unknown. We assume - we hope - that this and related
information will be released shortly, but the contrast between the belated sharing of information
by police during officer-involved shootings and the much more free-flowing disclosure of
information when serious civilian-upon-civilian crimes occur remains striking and totally
unacceptable. In fact, similar secrecy disconcertingly shrouded the last fatal police shooting in
Pawtucket in 2016.(1)

"Friday's deadly shooting warrants consideration for another important reason. According to
published accounts, there have been 14 incidents of deadly police shootings in Rhode Island since
2006. Of those 14 deaths, seven of them - one-half - have been at the hands of one police
department: Pawtucket. T his is a truly alarming figure.(2) By contrast, Providence, which has a
population more than two times as large as Pawtucket and a higher crime rate overall, has had
two fatal shootings by police in the same time period.

"While this figure is disturbing, we want to emphasize that we make no judgement on the actions
police took on Friday. Indeed, we don't have enough information for that. However, it cannot be
denied that Pawtucket police are far more likely to use deadly force than other police departments.

"T he ACLU fully recognizes the dangers police face daily, and that every police shooting must be
individually evaluated on its own merits and in recognition of the split-second decisions that officers
must often make. However, when one department protecting a city whose population makes up
about 7 percent of the state's population is nonetheless responsible for half of the fatal police
shootings in the past decade, both internal and external investigations of this troubling fact are
clearly warranted.

"T he ACLU calls on the Attorney General and the Police Chief to conduct a thorough review of the
Pawtucket Police Department's training and practices to determine the causes behind this
disconcerting track record. Just as importantly, we call on all police departments to be more
forthcoming with basic information about police shootings when they occur, rather than shrouding
them in secrecy for lengthy periods of time. T he formulaic silence by law enforcement that
routinely follows these shootings promotes a double standard that can only breed mistrust and
suspicion."

Footnotes:

(1) Providence Journal, "Information Lacking in Pawtucket Police Shooting of 24 Year Old Man,"
Amanda Milkovits, April 25, 2016.

(2) A Providence Journal article from 2016 documented 16 fatal police shootings in the state going
back to 2001, and there appear to have been three more, including Friday's death, since then.
T aking that longer view, Pawtucket police are still responsible for more than one-third of all fatal
police shootings in the state. Providence Journal, "RI Police Officers Involved in 16 Fatal Incidents in
Last 15 Years," Amanda Milkovits, March 28, 2016.

MST RUCK-6438168 MST RUCK

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Targeted News Service. All rights reserved.

 