AG: Shooting by city police justified, lawful - 3 - Times, The (Pawtucket,
RI) - October 11, 2018 - page A1
October 11, 2018 | Times, The (Pawtucket, RI) | JONATHAN BISSONNETTE jbissonnette@pawtuckettimes.com
| Page A1

PAWT UCKET  — Last month’s fatal, officer-involved shooting of DaShawn Cole
DaShawn Cole by members of
the Pawtucket Police Department was determined to be lawful and legally justified, the Attorney
General’s Office announced on Wednesday.

T he Providence County Grand Jury on Wednesday completed its investigation into the facts and
circumstances surrounding the Sept. 7 fatal shooting of Cole by three Pawtucket Police Officers
and the Grand Jury determined the officers’ actions to be “lawful and legally justified,” the AG’s
office said in a one-paragraph statement.

Police last month said that officers were responding to a 911 call for a man with a firearm on
Cottage Street at about 6:15 a.m. on Sept. 7, as a man was allegedly seen walking with a firearm in
his waistband. T he first responding officer – Officer Ana Vertentes – located a man who matched
the caller’s description on Newport Avenue. Police have said that Vertentes attempted to make
contact with the man, who was in possession of a firearm, and who was later identified as the 28-
year-old Cole.

According to a police statement, Cole “immediately attacked her,” and police officials at a press
conference last month described the confrontation as a “felony assault on an officer.” Police said
that “a violent struggle ensued between Officer Vertentes and Cole, resulting in her discharging her
firearm.”

Pawtucket Police Officers William Briggs and Dianne Rittman-McLaughlin also responded, and
police said that an armed Cole also confronted them, resulting in Rittman-McLaughlin and Briggs
firing at him.

Police have not said whether Cole fired on the officers or how many shots were fired by the
officers, nor have they identified what type of firearm he was carrying.

Officers attempted CPR and life-saving measures on the wounded Cole on scene until rescue
personnel arrived. Cole was pronounced dead that day at Rhode Island Hospital.

Vertentes has been a member of the Pawtucket Police Department since July 2016. Officers
Rittman-McLaughlin and Briggs have been with the department since 2010. T he three officers
were on administrative leave following the shooting.

T he Sept. 7 shooting was the seventh fatal shooting involving the Pawtucket Police Department
since 2006 and the second since 2016. T he ACLU of Rhode Island in the days after the fatal
shooting called on the Attorney General and Pawtucket Police Chief to conduct a “thorough review

of the Pawtucket Police Department’s training and practices to determine the causes behind this
disconcerting track record.”

Follow Jonathan Bissonnette on T witter @J_Bissonnette

Copyrig ht 2018, The Times, All Rights Reserved

 