State patrol: Deputy justified in fatal Joplin - Joplin Globe, The (MO) -
March 2, 2018
March 2, 2018 | Joplin Globe, The (MO) | Jeff Lehr

A Missouri State Highway Patrol investigation has determined that a Jasper County deputy's fatal
shooting of a Joplin man on Jan. 2 was justified.

Sheriff Randee Kaiser said a state patrol report returned this week found that Deputy Jason
Hutchins acted in a lawful manner when he shot and killed 66-year-old Louis C. M iller
Landreth Ave. Hutchins was responding to a call for backup help from two other deputies who
were serving civil court documents on Miller at the time.

Louis C. Miller at 901 N.

T he process servers called for backup assistance when Miller confronted them inside his residence
armed with a large knife.

T he sheriff said Miller's roommates, Mindi Hitt, 39, and Orlander Edwards, 45, who had been letting
Miller reside with them, sought and obtained an ex parte order earlier that day in response to Miller
purportedly having become increasingly confrontational with them in the days preceding the
shooting. Joplin police were told by Hitt that Miller had threatened to kill Edwards during an
argument with her while Edwards was at work.

"After those threats were made, they wanted him to move out," Kaiser said.

T he process servers met the couple at a residence next door and obtained their permission to
enter the house and serve the papers on Miller.

Kaiser said the court order was a "move-out" ex parte, meaning Miller needed to leave the
residence. As the two deputies entered through the front door and announced their presence,
Miller emerged from the back of the house displaying the knife, the sheriff said. T he deputies called
for assistance and tried to calm him down.

"T hey instructed him several times to drop the knife or put it down," Kaiser said.

In the meantime, Hutchins, a detective with the sheriff's office who happened to be in Joplin at the
time, and a fourth deputy arrived on the scene in response to the call for backup. T he sheriff said
Hutchins' decision to draw his service weapon was "an appropriate response" when confronted by
someone armed with a lethal weapon.

Kaiser said Hutchins fired a single round, striking Miller in the chest when Miller charged at him
inside the house. He was pronounced dead at a Joplin hospital a short time later.

T he sheriff said he was uncertain how many of the other deputies had their guns drawn when the
shooting took place. But no other shots were fired and no deputies were injured, he said.

T he sheriff's office did not publicly identify Hutchins as the officer who shot Miller until Friday and
provided few details about the shooting while the state patrol investigation was in progress. Kaiser
said he did not know why the investigation took two months to complete.

Return to duty

Deputy Jason Hutchins was placed on administrative leave following the Jan. 2 shooting of Louis
Miller. Hutchins returned to active duty a few days later.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Joplin Globe / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 