Squabble with roommates preceded fatal shooting of - Joplin Globe, The
(MO) - January 3, 2018
January 3, 2018 | Joplin Globe, The (MO) | Jeff Lehr

T he fatal shooting of a 66-year-old man by sheriff's deputies Tuesday afternoon in Joplin was
preceded by escalating tensions with two roommates who might have sought an ex parte order
against him.

T he Jasper County Sheriff's Department was serving civil court documents on Louis C. M iller
Louis C. M iller
about 3 p.m. Tuesday when Miller came to the door of his home at 901 N. Landreth Ave. armed
with a knife, prompting the process-serving deputies to request backup assistance.

As other officers arrived at the scene, Miller purportedly charged at the deputies with the knife and
was shot. He was taken to a Joplin hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 3:48 p.m.

T he death was not made public or Miller's name released until Wednesday morning when next of
kin had been notified. T he Missouri State Highway Patrol is investigating the shooting because an
officer was involved.

Investigators have yet to identify the officer or officers involved. Sgt. Tim Williams, with the
sheriff's department, on Tuesday said that no officers were injured. Williams has declined to
divulge how many shots were fired in the incident, the number of deputies who fired their weapons
or the number of wounds on the deceased pending completion of the patrol's investigation.

"We don't want to do anything that's going to compromise that," Williams said.

Globe inquiries led to an acknowledgement Wednesday by Joplin police that Miller's roommates,
Mindi D. Hitt, 39, and Orlander T . Edwards, 45, had lodged a complaint with police T uesday
morning that Miller had become increasingly confrontational with them in recent days.

Hitt told police that Miller threatened to kill Edwards during an argument with her on Monday while
Edwards was at work, according to Capt. Trevor Duncan, with the Joplin Police Department.

"T hey did not want to press charges, however, (so) the officer gave them information on how to
obtain an ex parte against him," Duncan said.

Williams declined Wednesday to say whether an ex parte was the document being served on Miller
when he was shot and killed. T he state's electronic court records system did not show that an ex
parte had been issued.

"I can't comment on what the civil documents were," Williams said.

Hitt and Edwards could not be reached for comment. No one answered the door at the address

when a Joplin Globe reporter went there Wednesday.

Results unavailable

An autopsy on the body of Louis Miller was being conducted Wednesday at Frontier Forensics in
Kansas City, Kansas. T he results of that autopsy were not available Wednesday night, according to
Jasper County Coroner Rob Chappel.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Joplin Globe / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 