Reports: Man killed by police was 'paranoid, - Deseret News, The (Salt
Lake City, UT) - April 20, 2018
April 20, 2018 | Deseret News, The (Salt Lake City, UT) | Pat Reavy Deseret News

By Pat Reavy

Deseret News

SALT  LAKE CIT Y - In the days and weeks leading up to Lonnie Marcel B owen
killed by police, he exhibited odd behavior, fueled by either drug use or mental illness, or both, and
believed that police were out to get him, according to newly released police reports.

Lonnie Marcel Bowen being shot and

On T uesday, Bowen, 41, of Salt Lake City, was shot by a Unified police officer following a 911 call
from a man threatening to stab a woman and a police chase.

T he incident began about 3 a.m. when emergency dispatchers received a call from an "agitated"
man who said, "T ell your officers to back off, or I will shove this knife through her throat," said
Unified Police Lt. Brian Lohrke.

Police began looking for a pickup truck, which was spotted an hour later by West Valley police.

T he ensuing chase ended near the intersection of 2700 South and 8400 West about 4:15 a.m.
after West Valley police successfully spiked the tires on the truck, Lohrke said. A Unified police
officer approached the vehicle. When he got there, he saw something that prompted him to fire at
least one shot, but investigators have not elaborated on what that was.

A woman who was also in the truck, possibly being held hostage, suffered minor injuries and was
treated at a hospital. T hose undisclosed injuries, Lohrke said, happened before the shooting and
were inflicted by Bowen.

According to police reports obtained by the Deseret News through a public records request, that
incident came on the heels of a very similar incident just five days earlier.

On April 12, a woman claimed that Bowen "forced her to drive him around throughout the night ...
while at one point holding her with his arm around her neck while placing a screwdriver to her
throat and threatening to kill her if she tried to get away or call police," according to a Salt Lake City
police report.

T he woman told police that Bowen made her drive from Magna to LDS Hospital twice, allegedly
because he "needed meds," the report states.

"(T he woman) stated Lonnie became increasingly paranoid, violent and threatening to her during
the drive and upon arrival, refused to go inside," according to the report.

When officers found the truck, the woman told them that "she believes Lonnie abuses narcotics
but has never actually seen him abuse anything. (She) stated Lonnie is also bipolar but does not
take required medications. (She) stated Lonnie seemed fine while communicating online but ever
since arriving in Utah, he has been different. Paranoid, delusional, and abusive," the police report
states.

She also stated that during their ride, Bowen accused the woman of "working for the police and set
him up to have the police kill him," according to the report. "(She) stated Lonnie then picked up a
can of spray paint and a lighter and threatened to kill her by lighting her on fire."

When police arrived at the parking lot where the pickup was stopped, officers ordered Bowen out
at gunpoint. He was compliant and did not resist, according to the report.

"Lonnie stated he is bipolar and abuses methamphetamine," the report states. "Lonnie admitted he
believed (the woman) was trying to get him in trouble with the police and have them 'gun him
down' because of everything she was wrapped up in and his wanting to leave her. Lonnie ultimately
admitted his own substance abuse with methamphetamine stating he last used a couple of days
ago. Lonnie agreed his meth use could be causing paranoia thus contributing to his belief (the
woman) is trying to have the police kill him."

When officers talked to the woman, they noted in their report that, "although speaking rapidly at
points and going off subject, (she) did not appear intoxicated or under the influence of any
substance while speaking with her. (T he woman) did also state she suffers from bipolar disorder."

Although some evidence was collected, Salt Lake police on Thursday said that Bowen and the
woman gave contradicting stories about what had happened, and there wasn't enough physical
evidence to confirm either story. Because of that, Bowen was not arrested. Police transported him
back to the homeless shelter. A victim advocate was called for the woman and she was taken to an
emergency shelter, according to police.

Salt Lake police declined to say Thursday whether it was the same woman who was in the truck
with Bowen on T uesday.

Salt Lake officers also came in contact with Bowen on March 23.

In that incident, a woman called police to report Bowen "was having a mental breakdown and
stabbing things with a screwdriver inside her car," according to a police report.

Officers arrived and took Bowen into custody without incident.

"He said he believes people are after him and said he believed someone was still in the vehicle
trying to get at him. T he vehicle was checked and no one else was found. Lonnie stated he just got
out of the psych ward at McKay Dee hospital a few days ago. He said he was prescribed new
medications but had not started taking them yet," the report states.

Police decided to "pink slip" Bowen at that time, or send him to University Neuropsychiatric

Institute "for an involuntary commitment for a psychiatric exam. Lonnie was very cooperative
throughout the whole process and understood that he needed help," according to the report.

On March 18, police were called to deal with Bowen on another incident. In that case, he was
standing in front of a hotel, 1729 N. Beck St., and was asked to leave because he was making
guests uncomfortable, according to the report. An officer took Bowen back to the homeless
shelter, the report states.

On Sunday, just two days before he was shot, Bowen posted several videos on Facebook saying
police were out to kill him.

On his Facebook page, which was created just a couple of weeks ago, the final posts on the page
are four livestream videos all recorded between 4 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. Sunday. In the recordings,
Bowen is talking while driving, and suggests that he is going to be killed by either Salt Lake police or
the Ogden Metro Strike Force.

"Salt Lake PD are killers. And they are responsible for anything that happens to me death-wise.
T hey want to kill me," he said. "T hey want me dead, for whatever reason, they want me dead."

Bowen contends the police will make his death look like criminal activity was involved.

"I'm putting this video out there so the world knows who is responsible for my death," he
continued. "I know they're gunning for me. I know they waiting for me."

Bowen had a lengthy criminal history, according to court records, including a conviction for
attempted murder in 1996, and he spent time in the Utah State Prison. He was most recently
released from prison in January.

Email: preavy@deseretnews.com

T witter: DNewsCrimeT eam

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Deseret News Publishing  Company

 