Young identified as Kent shooter - SHERIFF: - Daily News, The (Batavia,
NY) - April 14, 2018 - page A1
April 14, 2018 | Daily News, The (Batavia, NY) | JIM KRENCIK jkrencik@batavianews.com | Page A1

Genesee County Sheriff William A. Sheron, Jr. identified Deputy Ryan W. Young as the officer who
fatally shot Keith Kent

Keith Kent  outside of the Indian Falls Log Cabin Restaurant on Wednesday.

Young, a six-year law enforcement officer, joined the Sheriff's Office in 2016. He carried out the
duties, Sheron said in a short news release Friday.

"Law enforcement officers go to work every day knowing that they may be required to sacrifice
their own lives, or take the life of another human being, in order to fulfill their obligation of
protecting the citizens of our communities," Sheron said. "Deputy Young's actions on Wednesday
night did just that."

Sheron said the Sheriff's Office will have no further comment on the incident.

T he State Police are leading the investigation into the shooting, which followed reports of a man
inside the Indian Falls restaurant threatening patrons and firing a weapon.

According to the Sheriff's Office, Young and other officers found Kent holding a gun in the
restaurant's parking lot, and commanded him to drop the weapon.

"When they yelled the commands to him, he turned toward one of our officers and pointed the gun
at our officer. Our officer did take the shot and the suspect was killed," Undersheriff Greg Walker
told a news conference that night.

Young is part of a generation shift at the Sheriff's Office, which saw nine retirements in 2015 and
2016. He arrived at Park Road after working as a part-time officer with police departments in Eden,
Attica, Le Roy and Corfu, and served as a seasonal deputy before his appointment to the road
patrol.

Officers from the Sheriff's Office, Batavia and Le Roy police departments and state police have
spent the last two weeks training for active shooter situations. Young has faced one already.

During his time in Le Roy, the then-Le Roy officer was a first responder to the December 2015
Selden Road house fire set by Kyle G. Johnson after Johnson fatally shot a neighbor.

Johnson, who was later found not guilty by reason of insanity, fired at both Young and firefighter
T imothy Hodge as they arrived, starting a three-hour stand-off that led to Johnson's arrest.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Johnson Newspaper Corporation

 