A Volusia County sheriff’s deputy who shot and - Daytona Beach News-
Journal, The (FL) - August 7, 2018 - page C3
August 7, 2018 | Daytona Beach News-Journal, The (FL) | Patricio G. Balona patricio.balona@news-jrnl.com |
Article | Page C3

A Volusia County sheriff’s deputy who shot and killed a Seville man while responding alone to a
domestic violence incident over the weekend had backup, but it was 25 miles away, an official said
Monday.

So the Sheriff’s Office is looking for ways to increase the number of deputies in the rural northwest
area of Volusia County or find some form of assistance from nearby counties, said sheriff’s
spokesman Andrew Gant.

“Many of you have asked why a backup deputy did not arrive on scene during the 12 minutes of
body-camera video we provided,” Gant said.

It also took 16 minutes for the first-responding deputy, Brandon Watson, to be sent on the call
because a Volusia County sheriff’s dispatcher had difficulty finding the location of the house on her
computer. T he dispatcher initially contacted Putnam County to see if Seville and the address was in
their jurisdiction, according to 9-1-1 recordings.

At least two Volusia County sheriff’s deputies are dispatched to all priority calls, including domestic
violence-related calls, Gant said.

“A second deputy was dispatched to Friday’s call, too,” Gant said. “However, that deputy was
traveling from DeLand to the remote incident location in Seville, a distance of about 25 miles.”

As backup deputies rushed to help Watson, who was sent on a well-being check at 1600 N. U.S. 17,
Watson found himself the only deputy there with an uncooperative suspect. While trying to figure
out what was happening at the home, a confrontation between Watson and the suspect quickly
escalated, ending with the deputy shooting 29-year-old Emmanuel Alquisiras
Emmanuel Alquisiras , said Sheriff Mike
Chitwood.

Watson was responding to a report of an ongoing domestic disturbance between Alquisiras and
his wife, Elianet Escobar, around 7:39 p.m. Friday.

When Escobar, 24, came out and spoke to the deputy, her husband grabbed her and they started
to struggle at the top of the stairs, investigators said.

Watson shot Alquisiras with a Taser to get him away from the woman but he continued to
struggle with the deputy for several minutes. During the struggle, Alquisiras grabbed the deputy’s
T aser, and the Taser was discharged, investigators said.

Chitwood said in the body-worn camera video at the time of the final struggle, a targeting light
from the Taser appears on a porch rail. It appeared similar to the beam of a flashlight.

T he sheriff said that indicates Alquisiras had control of Watson’s Taser and was ready to fire. T he
deputy then fired five shots from his pistol, hitting Alquisiras four times.

Everything was over by the time backup deputies arrived.

Gant said Seville is a rural unincorporated community with a population of less than 700. Known by
deputies as Zone 21, it’s in the far northwest corner of Volusia County.

“T he geographic area of Zone 21 is extremely large, but the law enforcement call volume there is
extremely low compared to other areas of Volusia County,” Gant said.

“T he reality has always been that fewer deputies are available to immediately respond to a call in
Seville than in Deltona, for example, where population density and call volume are high.” Gant said.

“T he video of Friday’s incident is a clear illustration of that reality.”

In Friday’s case, deputies responded on a well-being check and had third-hand information from
the person who called for help that the woman was being battered by the suspect, Gant said.

T he person who made the call was the Domestic Abuse Council’s victim advocate who was
working to protect Escobar.

She said Escobar had come for help two days before the shooting and she had bruises all over her
body.

“I have a participant who is danger right now,” the advocate said to the dispatcher. “I need that
man out of the house.”

T he advocate said Alquisiras has physically beaten Escobar, even knocking her out with a punch in
one instance, she said in the emergency call.

“We believe that had the deputy not approached the residence to check on her — and had she
turned out to be injured or worse — then we would be facing a different set of questions today,”
Gant said.

T he incident is under review by the Sheriff’s Office.

“As in all cases, and especially in deputy-involved shootings, the Sheriff’s Office is examining every
factor that played a role in Friday’s incident,” Gant said.

“T he agency is taking steps to increase the number of deputies available to respond in a shorter
amount of time in Zone 21, to request and receive aid from neighboring counties when needed
and to communicate the status and location of backup units to the initial unit on scene.”

Copyrig ht 2018, Daytona Beach News-Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 