
 
"Believing that he was about to be stabbed by Reynolds, Officer Addis began firing and continued firing until

Reynolds no longer posed an apparently deadly threat." 

Report into May 14 shooting death 

of Cody Reynolds by Royal Oak police officer Ryan Addis 

Authorities on Thursday cleared a Royal Oak police officer of any criminal wrongdoing in the shooting death of a

20-year-old Royal Oak man whose parents called police after their son with a history of mental illness stabbed his

mother and struck his father with a guitar. 

The investigation that cleared Officer Ryan Addis in the shooting death of Cody Reynolds on May 14 also found

that the man had a history of depression and at least one suicide attempt, and that he'd consumed intoxicating

mushrooms on the night of the shooting, according to the Oakland County Prosecutor's Office. 

As the officer and Reynolds approached each other on the street near the family home, about two minutes after his

mother called 911, a squad-car's dash-cam video shows Reynolds momentarily complying with the officer's order

to get on the ground, but then springing up and lunging at the officer. 

"Believing that he was about to be stabbed by Reynolds, Officer Addis began firing and continued firing until

Reynolds no longer posed an apparently deadly threat," said a report on the investigation released Thursday by the

prosecutor's office. 

"The officer's use of force was therefore reasonable under the circumstances, even though it turned out later that

Reynolds; was no longer armed with the knife that he had used to stab his mother," said the report signed by Jason

Pernick, chief of the warrants division of the prosecutor's office. 

The officer is a four-year veteran of the department and has no history of using excessive use of force, said Royal

Oak police Chief Corrigan O'Donohue. Calling the incident "heartbreaking," O'Donohue added: "Our thoughts and

prayers go out to the Reynolds family." 

Family members had no comment, said a man who answered the phone at the home Thursday. 

"I heard the officer was cleared, as expected," the man said. 

Reynolds' death capped years of a troubled man that included self-inflicted cutting of his wrists and

hospitalization for depression in 2014; a suicide attempt in 2015 with 35-40 Xanax pills and two beers following

Reynolds' break-up with his girlfriend; and a drunken driving conviction in 2017 after Reynolds drove the wrong

way on Woodward in Royal Oak, then struck another car in a collision that caused "extremely serious injuries" to

the other driver, the report said. 

In the crash, Reynolds was found to have a blood-alcohol level of 0.25 –more than three times the legal threshold

for intoxication –and after a six-month jail term he was released to two years of probation on the condition that he

not use alcohol or marijuana. However, at Reynolds' probation visits, the county's drug checks "would not typically

check for the presence of psilocin" –the hallucinogenic chemical in mushrooms, according to the prosecutor's

report. 

The report further said that a friend of Reynolds said the two had consumed hallucinogenic mushrooms the night

before Reynolds was shot at about 3:15 a.m. It said that after getting home in the wee hours, and being described

by his parents as acting "bizarre" and "psychotic," he swung a heavy solid-body guitar "like an axe and struck his

father in the head." Next, the man ran to the kitchen, where he picked up a knife on a counter and tried to hide it

behind his arm; but when his mother wrested the knife from him, "Cody picked up another knife and stabbed his

mother in the chest," then left the house as his mother called 911. 

In about 90 seconds, Addis arrived in the area in his squad car and saw a young man who was shoeless, standing

near parked cars and walking toward his car, the report went on. 

It gave this account of the shooting: 

"Although Reynolds' hands were empty, Officer Addis stated he could not tell whether Reynolds had a knife or

some other concealed weapon. He drew his .40-caliber Glock service pistol and ordered Reynolds to stop." 

Reynolds at first ignored the order, then stopped and acknowledged that he had stabbed somebody. After

Reynolds failed to comply with an order to put his hands on his head, and continued to walk toward the officer,

"Officer Addis ordered Reynolds to get down on the ground (and) can be heard asking Reynolds if he still had the

knife. Reynolds did not answer" but instead, "without warning, he sprang up and lunged at Officer Addis," saying

"f*** it" as he did so. 

The officer backpedaled away from Reynolds, who continued coming at the officer, "and in response, Officer Addis

fired his pistol until Reynolds stopped charging and fell to the ground." 

The entire confrontation lasted 33 seconds. Reynolds was struck by four bullets and was pronounced dead at

Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, the report said. In a later search of Reynolds' bedroom, it said, detectives turned

up a note on which the young man had written: "I hate my life." 

Reynolds' death came on the heels of another fatal police shooting on April 10, when a man who fled from a traffic

stop was confronted by a Royal Oak police officer outside a White Castle restaurant's drive-through window. After

refusing orders to exit the BMW he was driving, the fleeing man drove his car at the officer —and was fatally struck

by three of the officer's shots. 

The driver was identified as Antonino Thomas Gordon, 28, who family members said on social media had recently

moved from Commerce Township to Royal Oak. At the time of the shooting, Gordon was being sought by police on

a warrant for a second-offense drunken driving. 

That officer was cleared of wrongdoing in a report released on Aug. 1 by the Genesee County Prosecutor's Office,

chosen to handle the investigation because the Royal Oak officer was familiar to some members of the Oakland

"Believing that he was about to be stabbed by Reynolds, Officer Addis began firing and continued firing until

County Sheriff's Office. 

Contact Bill Laitner: blaitner@freepress.com 

Reynolds no longer posed an apparently deadly threat." 

Report into May 14 shooting death 

of Cody Reynolds by Royal Oak police officer Ryan Addis 

CREDIT: Bill Laitner 
 
 
