
 
The mother, Michelle Reynolds, filed a $10-million federal civil-rights lawsuit in November against Addis and the

City of Royal Oak, alleging the use of force was unnecessary. 

Part of the encounter was recorded on police dash cam video, which showed Reynolds momentarily complying

with the officer's order to get on the ground, but then springing up and lunging at the officer. 

Cody Reynolds' wounded mother had told a 911 operator her 20-year-old son was no longer armed, but that

information wasn't relayed to the Royal Oak Police officer who shot him to death a little more than a minute later,

according to newly released police reports from the May incident that cited a "terrible" dispatch system. 

Reynolds, who struck his father in the head with a solid-body guitar and stabbed his mother in the chest with a

kitchen knife, had been reflecting on "unconditional love and religion" and "talking 'bizarre' " that night while high on

hallucinogenic mushrooms, his friend and family told investigators in the reports released to the Free Press on

Thursday under the Freedom of Information Act. 

Reynolds' mother, bleeding after the stabbing in their home on the 1000 block of Hoffman, had told a 911 operator

that the knife her son had stabbed her with was still in the kitchen and he had left the house unarmed. But one

minute and 12 seconds later —at about 3:15 a.m. on May 14 —Royal Oak Police officer Ryan Addis, thinking

Reynolds still had the knife, shot him four times as he charged at the officer on the street outside the residence,

according to Oakland County Sheriff's investigators' review of dispatch tapes. 

The 911 operator, also a police officer, later told sheriff's investigators that Royal Oak police used a "terrible

system" of yelling through an opening in a wall to relay information on major calls to dispatchers, the reports said.

After the incident, police found the knife, broken at the handle by a stove in the home's kitchen. 

Dispatch hadn't relayed the mother's message to Addis. The officer asked Reynolds whether he still had the knife,

then Reynolds said "f*** it" and charged Addis, who backed away then fired five shots, according to the reports.

Addis told the investigators he tensed up as Reynolds charged at him, expecting to be stabbed in the neck. 

Part of the encounter was recorded on police dash cam video, which showed Reynolds momentarily complying

with the officer's order to get on the ground, but then springing up and lunging at the officer. 

Autopsy results show Reynolds was shot once in the chest and three times in the back. A toxicology report found

psilocin, the active ingredient in hallucinogenic mushrooms, according to the autopsy report from the Oakland

County Medical Examiner's Office. 

The Oakland County Prosecutor's Office in August cleared Addis of any wrongdoing, ruling the shooting by the

four-year veteran police officer was justified based on the investigation by the sheriff's office. 

The mother, Michelle Reynolds, filed a $10-million federal civil-rights lawsuit in November against Addis and the

City of Royal Oak, alleging the use of force was unnecessary. Police used a dispatch system "regarded by the

department as an unreliable means to relay critical information to officers on the scene," according to the lawsuit 

"In official reports, Officer Addis alleged that Reynolds attempted to attack him by charging forward toward him,

upon his arrival at the scene," the lawsuit alleges. "However, the evidence, including the autopsy report, supports

that Officer Addis unlawfully shot Reynolds multiple times in his back without cause, resulting in his death." 

Attorney T. Joseph Seward, representing the defendants, filed a Dec. 17 response that denied many of the

allegations and said that Addis was "forced to defend himself from the actions of Cody Reynolds." 

Seward declined to comment Thursday when contacted by the Free Press. Attorney A. Vince Colella, who is

representing Michelle Williams in the lawsuit, didn't immediately respond to a request for comment. 

A scheduling conference in the case is set for Jan. 22. 

The sheriff's office reports detail witness and police accounts of what happened that night: 

Cody Reynolds' friend, Eli Lowell, said he picked Reynolds up from his house at about 9 p.m. on May 13, , and they

and another friend went back to Lowell's house, making music on a computer and relaxing. "He has known Cody

since third grade and said that he has not ever witnessed Cody become aggressive, he described him as a kind,

generous person, and what happened the night of the incident was out of character for Cody," according to the

report. 

report. 

Lowell said Reynolds took about 2 grams of mushrooms at about 10:30 p.m., and he was the only one to take

them. He said it appeared Reynolds was having a good time. 

Lowell said Reynolds asked him to drive him home at about 1:30 a.m. or 2 a.m., and that once they arrived, they got

into a "'philosophical' conversation about unconditional love and religion" that became very passionate, and

Reynolds seemed irritated. "Eli said Cody was very religious and Cody was getting 'worked up' about how young

people and religion are perceived, however he could not believe Cody would attack his parents," according to the

Michelle Reynolds said that the son came into her bedroom about a half hour before the shooting and began

"talking 'bizarre'" and "acting 'psychotic.'" She and her husband walked their son down to his bedroom to try to get

him to go to sleep. 

Doug Reynolds, Cody Reynolds' father, said his son hit him in the head with a guitar, and the wound was bleeding

so badly that he took a shower to clean himself up. 

Michelle Reynolds said she was trying to help the father when the son appeared with a kitchen knife. She was able

to talk him into giving her the knife, and she said he was talking "demonic and off the wall crap." Then he picked up

a black steak knife and stabbed her in the chest, and the knife broke. 

Michelle Reynolds said her son left the house and began walking down the street. She called 911 and heard

gunshots a short time later. 

Addis said he was monitoring traffic nearby when he was dispatched to the scene. He found Reynolds in the street,

illuminated him with a spotlight, drew his weapon and told Reynolds to "Stop right there." 

Addis said Reynolds took a couple steps toward him and stopped; he asked Reynolds whether he was the one who

just stabbed somebody, and Reynolds said he was. 

Addis told investigators Reynolds dropped his head and took a couple more steps toward him, at which time he

was told to stop and get on the ground. He said Reynolds then dropped to his knees with his arms in front of him in

a "worship pose." Addis said he asked Reynolds whether he still had the knife. He said Reynolds didn't answer,

instead saying 'F*** it' and charged at him. 

Addis said he began to back pedal away, but Reynolds got so close to him, he was forced to pull his gun into his

own chest, firing shots as he did so." He also said that he began to tense his body, fully expecting to be stabbed in

the neck. 

report. 

The Oakland County Prosecutor's Office, in a report in August, said Reynolds' death occurred after years of issues

that included self-inflicted cutting of his wrists and hospitalization for depression in 2014; a suicide attempt in

2015 with 35-40 Xanax pills and two beers following Reynolds' breakup with his girlfriend, and a drunken driving

conviction in 2017 after Reynolds drove the wrong way on Woodward in Royal Oak, then struck another car in a

collision that caused "extremely serious injuries" to the other driver. 

In the crash, Reynolds was found to have a blood-alcohol level of 0.25 —more than three times the legal threshold

for intoxication —and after a six-month jail term he was released to two years of probation on the condition that he

not use alcohol or marijuana. However, at Reynolds' probation visits, the county's drug checks "would not typically

check for the presence of psilocin" —the hallucinogenic chemical in mushrooms, according to the prosecutor's

Last month, in a separate, unrelated case, the family of a 28-year-old Commerce Township man who was fatally

shot by Royal Oak police outside a White Castle drive-through window in April sued the city, claiming that the

shooting was unjustified. 

That incident is cited in the Reynolds lawsuit, alleging the city failed to train its officers in the proper use of force

and to "adequately investigate and discipline police officers who used excessive and/or deadly force on citizens." 

Contact Robert Allen on Twitter @rallenMI or rallen@freepress.com. Bill Laitner and Steve Pepple contributed to

The mother, Michelle Reynolds, filed a $10-million federal civil-rights lawsuit in November against Addis and the

City of Royal Oak, alleging the use of force was unnecessary. 

Part of the encounter was recorded on police dash cam video, which showed Reynolds momentarily complying

with the officer's order to get on the ground, but then springing up and lunging at the officer. 

this report. 

CREDIT: Robert Allen 
 
 
