Man ran at officer before shots - Video shows - Detroit News, The (MI) -
May 15, 2018 - page A3
May 15, 2018 | Detroit News, The (MI) | James David Dickson | Page A3

Royal Oak – A domestic violence incident that allegedly started with a Royal Oak man stabbing his
mother and hitting his father ended in the man's death by an officer Monday, police said.

T he Royal Oak Police Department identified the victim as Cody Reynolds

Cody Reynolds . He was 20.

Reynolds' death is the second recent fatal officer-involved shooting in Royal Oak. T he April 10
shooting of Antonino Thomas Gordon outside a White Castle restaurant in the city remains under
investigation.

T he stabbing and report of Reynolds' allegedly striking his father in the head with a guitar took
place at 3:11 a.m. on the 1000 block of Hoffman at Reynolds' home.

An officer saw Reynolds walking in the area minutes after the call came in, got out of his patrol car
and ordered him to stop.

Reynolds said he had stabbed his mother. T he officer ordered him to the ground. He complied
initially, "but then quickly rushed towards the officer in an aggressive manner."

T he officer pulled his gun and fired, striking Reynolds, then administered first aid as EMS was
alerted, police said. He was taken to Royal Oak Beaumont Hospital, where he died. T he shooting
happened on Hudson near South Wilson, which is around the corner from the family's home.

Dash-cam video released hours after the shooting shows an officer pulling up to the scene and
finding Reynolds standing near a vehicle. Reynolds approaches the officer and is told to put his
hands up. He steps toward the officer and is again told to put his hands up, at which point he does.
T he officer orders him to get on the ground, which he does briefly before popping back up and
running toward the officer. T he officer fired five shots. At least four shell casings were found at the
scene.

Royal Oak police Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said Reynolds was not armed, but that there's no way
the officer could have known that at the time.

"If someone is willing to assault their parents, they'd be willing to assault anybody," O'Donohue
said.

He began a news conference by offering condolences to the Reynolds family, and later offered
thoughts to the officer who fired the fatal shots.

"No officer wants to go through this," O'Donohue said. "T his is a terrible thing."

He said the officer has been placed on administrative leave.

Royal Oak police do not wear body cameras, and O'Donohue said Monday he saw no need for
them. Officers wear transmitters that record audio. He described the problem with body cameras
as one of data storage.

Reynolds' parents were taken to a hospital but their injuries are not believed to be life-threatening.

Reynolds was on probation for a 2017 drunken driving incident on Woodward in which there were
serious injuries.

T he Oakland County Sheriff's Office is investigating the shooting.

(c) 2018, The Detroit News. All rights reserved.

 