Video shows Maurice Granton, Jr. holding a gun - Chicago Sun-Times
(IL) - June 8, 2018
June 8, 2018 | Chicago Sun-Times (IL) | Mitchell Armentrout, Lizzie Schiffman Tufano, Lizzie Schiffman Tufano

M aurice Granton, Jr. holding a semi-
Chicago Police released a video Thursday that shows Maurice Granton
automatic handgun hours before he was fatally shot by a police officer Wednesday night in
Bronzeville, according to CPD spokesman Anthony Guglielmi.

Guglielmi shared the video in a tweet T hursday.

UPDAT E; Video prior to last night’s officer involved shooting shows offender holding what turned
out to be a semi automatic handgun that was later recovered by officers.
pic.twitter.com/6nT I90CFsm

— Anthony Guglielmi (@AJGuglielmi) June 7, 2018

Officers were on a narcotics mission in the 300 block of East 47th Street when officials say
Granton pulled a gun on tactical officers who were trying to stop him about 8:15 p.m. Wednesday.
One officer opened fire during the “armed encounter,” according to a police statement, striking
Granton in the back.

Paramedics took Granton to the University of Chicago Medicine trauma center, and he was
pronounced dead at 8:41 p.m., police said. An autopsy Thursday found Granton suffered a gunshot
wound to his back, according to the medical examiner's office.

Guglielmi shared the video, as well as a photo of a gun allegedly recovered from Granton at the
scene, “in response to claims that offender was unarmed and the weapon was planted by CPD
officers,” he said.

Officers recovered a gun at the scene of a police-involved shooting Wednesday in Bronzeville,
according to a police spokesman. | Anthony Guglielmi/T witter

RELAT ED

• Man, 24, fatally shot by Chicago police officer in Bronzeville: CPD

M aurice Granton 
• Family looks for answers in CPD officer's fatal shooting of Maurice Granton

Family members who held a vigil for Granton Thursday evening said they don't believe he had a
gun, and they claimed the officer fired 12 rounds — because he was "mad" because a sergeant
had hurt his ankle during the chase — hitting Granton at least six times.

Vigil for Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr., who was fatally shot by Chicago Police. | Rick Majewski/For the Sun-

T imes

Guglielmi said on T witter Wednesday that an officer at the scene “sustained [a] possible broken
ankle during [the] confrontation.”

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability, which investigates shootings by officers, said the officer
fired three times. Before Guglielmi’s tweet, the agency had promised to release body-camera
footage within 60 days.

Granton, a father of two young daughters, previously had been convicted of robbery and theft,
court records show. Family members and friends described him as a loving person.

"He was silly, goofy, fun," Granton's sister Joanna Varnado, said at the vigil T hursday. "He cared
about his family. Everything was about family."

T he officer who opened fire is on desk duty for 30 days, per CPD policy.

At a Thursday night vigil on 47th and Prairie, Shaumanika Jones (right) comforts Teresa Richardson
(center), who is Maurice Granton
Wednesday night during a Bronzeville foot chase. | Rick Majewski/For the Sun-T imes

M aurice Granton Jr.’s sister. Granton was fatally shot by a Chicago Police officer

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Sun-Times Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

 