
 
July 25--The city's police oversight agency on Wednesday afternoon plans to show video to the relatives of a man

fatally shot by a Chicago police officer last month. 

Police had said that Maurice Granton, 24, ran from plainclothes tactical officers working a drug investigation on

June 6. He ignored their orders to stop, pulled a gun and was shot by one of the officers, police said. 

The family, which at the time of the shooting had disputed police claims that Granton had a gun, is scheduled to

view the video at 1 p.m. at the Civilian Office of Police Accountability, which investigates police shootings, said

attorney Andrew Stroth, who represents Granton's family with Antonio Romanucci. 

The Police Department released a limited video shortly after the shooting that it said showed Granton holding a

gun sometime before he was shot by the officer in the Bronzeville neighborhood. The department also tweeted out

a photo of a 9 mm handgun it said was recovered. 

"This video is ... being released in response to claims that offender was unarmed and the weapon was planted by

CPD officers," police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi said at the time. 

Officers in one of the department's nerve centers -- officially known as Strategic Decision Support Centers -- had

spotted Granton in a drug transaction while watching video from a police surveillance camera, according to

Guglielmi. They alerted officers on patrol who responded to 47th Street and Prairie Avenue to confront Granton, he

said. 

Granton was pronounced dead at the University of Chicago Medical Center. He had been shot in the back,

according to the Cook County medical examiner's office. 

Granton had been treated at the same hospital just days before for a graze wound near his right eye. He refused to

cooperate with police after officers found him lying in an alley in the South Side's Chatham neighborhood,

authorities said then. 

Granton had two young daughters, according to his sister, Joanna Varnado, who said at the time of his fatal

shooting that she did not believe he had a gun. 

"I just want to know what the real story is," she said . "If it was (police) misconduct, I want justice. My brother was

24 years old. He loved his girls. That's all he lived for was his kids." 

Granton had two convictions for robbery and theft and several arrests on suspicion of trespassing and drug

possession. 

arrest was in 2016, records show. 

But his family said that with the birth of his two daughters, Granton's criminal behavior was in the past. His last

"Since when does running validate somebody getting shot?" Varnado said at the time. "I don't understand that.

You're not being offensive, you're being defensive." 

The shooting happened around 8:10 p.m. June 6 and sparked tense confrontations between police and the family

at the hospital. Granton was pronounced dead there about half an hour after he was shot, but relatives said they

were not told for several hours. 

Family and friends first gathered in the waiting room, then were told to move outside, where a hospital official

addressed the growing crowd. He told them there were three gunshot victims in the emergency room and they

were waiting for identification. 

emergency room lobby. 

Around 10:30 p.m., family members and hospital officials began loudly arguing about where they could wait.

Authorities tried to usher members of the crowd into another lobby nearby, but they insisted on staying outside the

Security outside the emergency room grew to more than a dozen officers, from both the Chicago and University of

Chicago police departments. The officers formed a line in front of the entrance and said the area was on lockdown. 

Police eventually let Varnado and a few other family members inside. Around 11:45 p.m., Varnado walked back out.

She stood next to Tayshia Shaw, who has two daughters with Granton, a 1-year-old and another who has not yet

had her first birthday. 

"No, he's not," Shaw said. "No ..." 

Shaw dropped to the sidewalk, lying on her left side. Varnado sat cross-legged with Shaw's head in her lap, and the

women tried to comfort each other as they cried. 

The hospital later released a statement defending its handling of the crowd, saying it "always has been committed

to and focused on the safety and privacy of patients and their families. Like other hospitals across the country,

UChicago Medicine has well-established and comprehensive policies and procedures in place designed to protect

Company / organization:

Name: University of Chicago Medical Center; NAICS: 622110; Name: University of

patients, their families and staff." 

dhinkel@chicagotribune.com 

asweeney@chicagotribune.com 

jgorner@chicagotribune.com 

CREDIT: By Dan Hinkel, Annie Sweeney and Jeremy Gorner 
 
 
