Body cameras provide insight in police shootings. - Kansas City Star,
The (MO) - June 22, 2018
June 22, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | The Kansas City Star Editorial Board, The Kansas City Star

Recent police shootings that left three dead in Kansas City are yet another reminder: Officers
should be equipped with body cameras. And the Kansas City Police Department shouldn’t wait until
2020 to make that happen.

Even though the Kansas City Police Department has studied the issue for years and rolled out a
pilot program about two years ago, it lags behind counterparts in other major cities.

T he initial price tag to implement the technology was expected to be around $6 million, police
officials said last year. But now, the time line for implementation has slid all the way to 2020.

T he continued delays are a disservice to both officers and the citizens they protect and serve.

Body cameras are an essential tool that provides accountability and transparency. T he technology
has been used to clear officers of various allegations. Footage has also been used to implicate
wayward officers who may have otherwise escaped legal scrutiny.

In 21st-century policing, body cameras are also important in fostering trust within the community.

“We are always exploring technology that is out there that will make us more effective and better
able to serve the public,” Kansas City Police Sgt. Jacob Becchina, the department’s spokesman, told
T he Star on T hursday.

A Police Executive Research Forum survey found that 39 percent of police departments that do not
use body cameras cited cost as a primary reason. But excuses have been exhausted here in
Kansas City. T he police department can't afford not to invest in this readily available technology.

As the father of one of the three victims shot and killed recently by police in Kansas City said, if
officers had been wearing cameras, they could clear up any misconception about what police did
and didn’t do correctly.

“I’m not picking on police,” Mark Draper said. “But from what I’ve seen, they came in with guns
blazing.”

Police said Draper’s 34-year-old son, Robert A. White, was physically intertwined with T imothy
T imothy
M osley during a fight when officers shot both men. Police contend Mosley pointed a gun at them.
M osley

A bystander’s video shows the encounter. Three officers fired within 10 seconds.

T he department’s initial account of the incident seemed to justify the shooting. Body camera

footage could have corroborated that assertion.

In another recent case, officers shot Ashley Simonetti as she wielded a decorative sword.

T he absence of body cameras and the police department's policy of withholding the names of
officers involved in use-of-force incidents combine to sow distrust.

Standard professional practices suggest departments release officers' names within 48 to 72
hours. So far, KCPD officials have not identified the officers involved. And they don’t plan to.

Shouldn’t the public know if officers have been involved in multiple shootings? T hat’s an
accountability issue that could easily be addressed. Equipping police with body cameras would also
help.

T he police board must approve the use of body cameras. What's the delay?

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 