


 
Jan. 25--BEMIDJI -- It took five seconds to fire the nine rounds that killed Vernon May during a traffic stop in

November. 

wrongdoing. 

man. 

of the report. 

paperwork. 

arrest. 

Those five seconds have been the focus of intense scrutiny since they happened nearly two months ago. They've

been the topic of rallies and speculation and articles and letters and town hall discussions. 

And now, the full sequence of events leading up to those five, late-night moments have been released to the public.

Along with that new release of information, the two men at the center of the controversy have been cleared of any

Beltrami County Attorney David Hanson said Thursday there will be no charges filed against Beltrami County

Deputy Brandon Newhouse and Bemidji Police Officer Bidal Duran for the death of May, a 34-year-old Red Lake

In addition to his statement, Hanson released the video footage and an 11-page report, detailing the facts and

analysis of the traffic stop that resulted in May's death. The report included portions of interviews with both Duran

and Newhouse, as well as the other two individuals who were in the vehicle with May. 

"While the death of another human being by deadly force is never to be taken lightly, there is no question that the

actions of both Officer Duran and Deputy Newhouse in this matter were justified," Hanson wrote in the conclusion

May died just before 11 p.m. on Wednesday, Nov. 28, when officer Duran initiated a traffic stop near the

intersection of Ridgeway Avenue Northwest and 30th Street, near the Paul Bunyan Mall. 

* Click here for a slow motion version of the police video. 

Before the traffic stop, the Paul Bunyan Drug Task Force notified Duran the GMC Envoy that May was in stopped at

a residence suspected of illegal drug activity, the report said. Duran located the vehicle and began following it. He

activated his emergency lights when he realized the vehicle had a broken top brake light, which is located at the

top of the vehicle, centered above the back window. Duran later told investigators he didn't know who was in the

vehicle at the time he first made the stop. 

In addition to May, there were two other men in the car, both of whom were in the front seats. The initial encounter

appears non-confrontational in Duran's body cam footage as the driver began to search for the vehicle's insurance

"How are you doing?" May asked Duran from the back seat after Duran first noticed him. 

"I'm good; I'm good," Duran replied to May. "How are you guys?" 

After identifying May in the back seat, Duran received word through his earpiece that there was a warrant for May's

Deputy Newhouse arrived shortly after Duran initiated the stop. Duran spoke to the two men in the front seat from

the passenger side. May was seated behind the driver. While Newhouse stayed on the passenger side, Duran

walked around and opened the rear, driver-side door where May was seated. Duran told May to get out since he

was going to be arrested for the warrant. 

The video footage released by the county attorney's office alternates between the dash cam in Duran's squad

vehicle and the body camera on his uniform. 

At the moment May got out of the vehicle, the video footage switches to the dash camera in the squad vehicle,

showing both Duran and May from a short distance away. The county attorney's report says May didn't comply

when Duran told him to put his hands behind his back. 

In the following moments, Newhouse yelled "gun" multiple times, according to the written report. That's when

Duran and May began a half-minute struggle for control of the gun. Duran pushed May back into the vehicle, and

began screaming a number of commands, such as "let it go, Vernon!" 

Newhouse ran around the vehicle from the passenger side to help Duran. 

Both Duran and Newhouse later told investigators May said "You're going to have to shoot me." 

On the video, May can be heard saying "shoot me" several times, but much of the audio surrounding those words is

Duran told investigators he began losing grip of the handgun during the struggle and that he thought May would

"The whole time he was trying to point it at me," Duran told investigators. "No matter what was going to happen, he

unclear. 

shoot him if he didn't shoot first, the report said. 

was going to try to hurt me or someone else." 

Both Duran and Newhouse fired their weapons instantly after Duran pulled himself away while May was still in the

back seat of the vehicle. The report said 10 shots were fired, nine by Duran and one by Newhouse. However, the

autopsy indicated that May's body only had nine entry wounds. 

"It seemed like he just didn't care if he was going to hurt anyone or himself," Newhouse told investigators. 

The other two men in the vehicle said they didn't know May had a gun at the time they were pulled over. According

to the report, May's handgun was a Taurus G2C 9mm. 

The report said May's system tested positive for methamphetamine, amphetamine, Fentanyl, Norfentanyl and

The weapon May had was reported stolen in Red Lake on Sept. 11, 2018, about two and a half months prior to the

traffic stop, according to the county attorney's report. 

morphine. 

CREDIT: By Jordan Shearer 
 
 


 
Dec. 17--BEMIDJI -- The streets of Bemidji have become a stage. 

That's because, time and again throughout the past year, local activists have taken their message to the masses

through demonstrations, marches and protests. And though one 

demonstration or march may not have anything to do with the next, activists increasingly have used the method to

bring attention to their respective causes. 

They've held up traffic, and they've shut down whole city blocks. They've danced, they've chanted, they've sung and

they've screamed. At times, they've stood in silence. And -- in one way or another -- they've been heard. 

"People are interested in getting their voices heard. Protest is a legitimate method of doing so," said Colleen Greer,

BSU sociology professor. "Local individuals may, if they see themselves as blocked from actively engaging with

leaders who could hear them, either nationally or locally, engage in protest." 

The most recent protests have been in response to the officer-involved shooting of 34-year-old Vernon May. On

Nov. 30, about 60 people marched from the Paul and Babe statues to the Law Enforcement Center to protest the

shooting, which allegedly happened during a traffic stop after an officer struggled with May for control of a firearm.

Several other demonstrations were also panned in response to the May shooting in the following weeks. 

But the protests against the shooting are only the most recent in a growing list that have taken place to address

both local and national issues. 

In September, a small handful of people gathered outside the Beltrami County Courthouse to bring attention to the

fact that a third inmate had died in the county jail within a two-year period. 

In October, the friends and family of Aaron Krabbenhoft marched more than two miles in the rain from

Krabbenhoft's former apartment to Paul and Babe where they held a small rally. They then continued marching to

the Law Enforcement Center to bring attention to what they say is the mislabeling of Krabbenhoft's death as a

suicide rather than a homicide. 

In August, protesters shut down the intersection of Third Street and Beltrami Avenue to protest the Enbridge Line 3

replacement project. For more than three hours, a crowd brought long banners to section off the intersection,

shutting down traffic from four different streets. It resulted in authorities issuing multiple citations. 

In May, a group of Native American activists went fishing on Lake Bemidji a day before the annual statewide

opener to protest what they viewed as the infringement on their treaty rights. They intended to get ticketed and

then use the time in court to voice their concerns. 

Not all demonstrations have been focused on local issues, either. 

On Nov. 8, a group of approximately 60 people brought their signs to the Paul and Babe statues to support the

Robert Mueller probe after President Donald Trump fired then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions. A photo of the group

was sent to "The Rachel Maddow Show," who included it on air in a rundown of similar demonstrations across the

country. 

show. 

"People were out on the road in super-snowy Bemidji, Minnesota tonight," Maddow said from her nationally viewed

The year also has included marches that show promise of turning into annual events. In February, approximately

130 people gathered for the second year to march for missing and murdered indigenous women. A month earlier,

about 500 people came out for the second Bemidji Women's March. The annual March for Life also was held in

January. 

Local response 

Like the demonstration in support of the Mueller investigation, the local Women's March was part of a much larger

movement that brought thousands of people together in cities all across the country. 

Effective though they may be in amplifying an issue, Bemidji Police Chief Mike Mastin said demonstrations carry

challenges for the authorities. One challenge is battling the misconception that the authorities are against

whatever the demonstration may be about. 

"The subject matter of the demonstration is truly not of our concern," Mastin said. 

Another challenge is balancing the rights of demonstrators against the rights of everyone else impacted by the act,

such as nearby business owners on a street that has to be temporarily shut down because of the protest. 

"Sometimes a demonstration may have a good cause or a good purpose, and they really want to draw attention,

but they don't realize that some of the actions they do may actually cause contrary viewpoints to their cause just

because of what they're doing," Mastin said. 

Some of those who have marched, however, would disagree. Rita Chamblin, Bemidji liaison for Minnesota

Interfaith Power and Light, took part in the Enbridge Line 3 demonstration in August. She said taking a message to

the streets is a way to prompt people to seek out more information about the situation or ask questions they may

not have otherwise thought to. 

"That individual now knows something's important enough that people took the time and the effort and the risk to

come do this," Chamblin said about the average passerby who may come into contact with a protest or

demonstration. "And I think there were conversations that happened as a result of that." 

Technology ramps up changes 

Though activists have protested for generations, the volume on their megaphone has been turned up with the

increase in technology. Rather than holding up a sign for a few passing cars to see, the sign was held up for

millions of people to see on "The Rachel Maddow Show." Instead of being limited to those in downtown Bemidji,

video footage of the Enbridge protest was streamed right to the office of Gov. Mark Dayton in St. Paul. 

The terminology also varies and has changed. The march for Vernon May was named a "spiritual walk." The March

for Aaron Krabbenhoft was called a "prayer march." Some say the word "protest" infers something negative. Others

implied the word "demonstration" is outdated. 

"I think of the word 'action' because you're taking some sort of action," Chamblin said. 

While there has been a high concentration of demonstrations in recent months, they certainly aren't the first to

descend on the streets of Bemidji. Most recently, Soren Sorensen helped spread the word about the demonstration

supporting the Robert Mueller investigation. But he also can remember back to multiple protests from his years

growing up in Bemidji. 

Sorensen said. 

"I would argue that there's kind of a long and rich tradition of protest in our area; I've seen it my whole life,"

Like Sorensen, Audrey Thayer has lived in the community for years and can point back to a number of protests

she's seen and participated in. She said the largest she ever saw was in the early 2000s in response to the Iraq

war. The second largest, she said, was the Women's March. 

As a former employee of the American Civil Liberties Union, Thayer's been actively involved in issues of racial

justice for years. Whether or not the community is energized enough to continue the trend of such visible activism,

she's enjoyed watching and helping push issues into the public sphere. 

"It's exciting," Thayer said. "It gives me hope that we move away from our kitchen tables of talk and we join as

human beings on a common issue and take it to the streets." 

CREDIT: By Jordan Shearer 




 
Dec. 07--BEMIDJI -- Although more than a week has passed, not much is known about the officer-involved shooting

of Vernon May. 

Within two days of the Nov. 28 shooting, the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension released the names of May, as well

as the Bemidji Police officer and the Beltrami County Sheriff's deputy involved in the incident. Other than that, the

agency hasn't released any new information about the shooting, which has garnered substantial speculation

throughout the community. 

There also is no indication how long the investigation may take. 

"The time required to conduct a thorough and complete investigation varies depending on many factors, so there is

no set timetable," said Jill Oliveira of the BCA, which is the agency investigating the incident. 

However, Oliveira did give brief insight into the general methodology of the investigation. She said agents will

interview any witnesses as well as those involved in the situation. Further, she said investigators will "collect,

analyze and review" evidence related to the incident, including any body and vehicle camera footage. 

Because of the ongoing investigation, the agency has been quiet about any pertinent details, such as what initiated

the traffic stop or how many rounds were fired. 

According to the original press release about the shooting, both the police officer, Bidal Duran, and the deputy,

Brandon Newhouse, were placed on administrative leave following the shooting, which is standard procedure.

Duran has been with the department for nearly six years. Newhouse has been with the Sheriff's Office for two

years. 

Once the investigation is complete, Oliveira said the BCA will turn its findings over to the county attorney of

jurisdiction, which is the Beltrami County Attorney's Office. 

Although acting as the investigating agency, the BCA doesn't "determine the outcome of a case," Oliveira said. 

Once the investigation is complete, "most investigative data" will be made public, Oliveira said. 

May, 34, of Red Lake, died late on Nov. 28 during the traffic stop at the intersection of Ridgeway Avenue NW and

30th St. NW, which is near the Paul Bunyan Mall. 

According to law enforcement officials, Duran initiated the traffic stop, and Newhouse arrived shortly thereafter.

May, who was in the back seat of the vehicle, was asked to get out since he had a felony warrant. Both Duran and

Newhouse noticed May had a handgun, and Duran and May subsequently began to struggle for control of the

weapon, according to the press release. Sometime after that, both Duran and Newhouse fired their weapons, which

resulted in May's death. 

The funeral for May was held Thursday in Red Lake. 

CREDIT: By Jordan Shearer 
 
 


 
Nov. 30--BEMIDJI -- The Bureau of Criminal Apprehension confirmed Friday that Vernon May, 34, of Red Lake, was

the man local law enforcement officials shot and killed Wednesday night during a traffic stop in Bemidji. 

In addition to confirming May as the individual who died, the BCA also confirmed the names of the Bemidji Police

officer and Beltrami County Sheriff's deputy who were on the scene and fired the rounds. They include Bemidji

Police Officer Bidal Duran, who's been with the department for nearly six years, and Deputy Brandon Newhouse,

who's been with the sheriff's office for two years. 

The shooting took place during a traffic stop late Wednesday night near the intersection of Ridgeway Avenue

Northwest and 30th Street Northwest. According to a press release from the Bemidji Police Department, Duran

initiated the traffic stop and realized May, who was in the back seat of the vehicle, had a warrant out for his arrest. 

As May exited the vehicle, Duran and Newhouse realized he had a handgun. Duran began to struggle with May for

the weapon. Sometime thereafter, both Duran and Newhouse fired their weapons at May, according to the press

release. How many shots were fired was also not released. Duran was wearing a body camera, but the release did

As of Thursday, both officials were placed on administrative leave, which is standard operation procedure in

not say if it was recording. 

officer-related shootings, the release said. 

Check back here on this developing story. 

CREDIT: By Jordan Shearer 
 
 


 
Dec. 14--BEMIDJI -- Police Chief Mike Mastin cautioned Friday against the spread of misinformation and reiterated

the need for a thorough investigation following the recent officer-involved shooting death of Vernon May. 

The shooting has caused significant backlash throughout the community, a demand for transparency from the

police department and Beltrami County Sheriff's Office, as well as a slew of rumors about what actually happened

during the traffic stop that resulted May's death. 

"It is important that people not promote a false narrative that spreads hate throughout our community," Mastin

said in a press release issued Friday afternoon. "Doing so does not allow our community to heal and move

In addition to warning against misinformation, Mastin reiterated the fact that the investigation will take time to

The Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is investigating the shooting, and once that is complete, it will

turn over its findings to the Beltrami County Attorney's Office. 

There is at least some video footage of the incident, and Mastin clarified in his release that the recording will be

made available at some point. At the same time, he cautioned that releasing the footage too soon after the fact

could have negative ramifications. 

"By releasing the video too soon, there is the risk of tainting a jury that may be required for a trial or grand jury,"

Mastin wrote. "I assure you that the body camera worn by the Bemidji Police Officer in this case will be made

forward." 

complete. 

public." 

In addition to the Bemidji police officer, a Beltrami County sheriff's deputy also was at the scene and fired his

weapon during the incident. The Beltrami County Sheriff's Office could not be immediately reached for any kind of

similar statement, and Mastin did not reference whether or not there would be a similar release of video footage

from the deputy's body camera or squad vehicle. 

May, 34, of Red Lake, died late on Wednesday, Nov. 28, during a traffic stop at the intersection of Ridgeway Avenue

Northwest and 30th Street, which is near the Paul Bunyan Mall. 

According to the original press release about the shooting, Bemidji Police Officer Bidal Duran initiated the traffic

stop, and Beltrami County Sheriff's Deputy Brandon Newhouse arrived shortly thereafter. May, who was in the back

seat of the vehicle, was asked to get out since he had a felony warrant. Both Duran and Newhouse noticed May

had a handgun, and Duran and May subsequently began to struggle for control of the weapon, according to the

release. Sometime after that, both Duran and Newhouse fired their weapons, which resulted in May's death. 

May's death has prompted multiple protests at the Law Enforcement Center in downtown Bemidji. The most recent

protest was scheduled for Friday afternoon. However, the protest had been planned in advance before Mastin's

statement was released. 

Here's the full text of Mastin's release: 

"Our community has experienced a tragedy. One life is lost and others are irreversibly changed forever. Their

families and friends have also suffered a great deal of grief, anger and worry. Understandably, everyone wants

answers as to what happened on the night of November 28th. 

"I recognize that people want the details of this case to be made public immediately, I do too. However, it is

important we all understand, a case of this significance takes time and due diligence to ensure nothing is missed.

It is also important to recognize that immediately after this incident the Bemidji Police Department requested an

independent investigation by a premier investigative agency, the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension. This

agency must review all of the evidence it has collected including, but not limited to; interviews, videos, physical

evidence, autopsy and toxicology reports. Each of these items take time for proper analysis. 

"Once the BCA investigation is complete it will be forwarded to the Beltrami County Attorney's Office for review. 

"There have been untruthful rumors spread across this community and social media by people who do not have

facts related to this case. It is important that people not promote a false narrative that spreads hate throughout

our community. Doing so does not allow our community to heal and move forward. In fact, it only serves to create

further division and destroy the bridges of trust we have already built. 

"There has been demand for immediate release of the video. I assure you that the body camera worn by the

Bemidji Police Officer in this case will be made public. However, we must consider several important details. By

releasing the video too soon, there is the risk of tainting a jury that may be required for a trial or grand jury. And, we

are considering the family of the deceased, once the video is made public it will be shared across all media

platforms. 

"The Bemidji Police Department believes strongly in building the resilience and strength of the Bemidji Community

through transparency and inclusion. It is imperative that we exercise patience and allow for a complete and

thorough investigation. Together, we all seek the truth." 

Cameras; False information; Police; Criminal investigations; Camcorders; Gossip

-- Chief Mastin 

CREDIT: By Jordan Shearer 
 
 


 
Dec. 01--BEMIDJI -- By the time officials released the name of Vernon May on Friday, the world already knew he

was the man killed during an officer-involved shooting two days before. 

And, in that brief time, his name became a rallying cry on the Internet, the focus of local debate about whether law

enforcement was justified in his shooting death, and the spark for a protest through downtown on Friday night. 

May, 34, of Red Lake, was shot by local law enforcement during a traffic stop Wednesday night near the

intersection of Ridgeway Avenue Northwest and 30th Street. According to a release from the Bemidji Police

Department, an officer initiated a traffic stop and realized that May, who was in the back seat, had a felony-level

warrant. A Beltrami County Sheriff's deputy also arrived on scene, and the two officials asked May to get out of the

vehicle. 

dead at the scene. 

They saw May had a handgun, and the officer began to struggle with May for control of the firearm, the release

said. Sometime thereafter, both the deputy and the officer fired their weapons at May, who was later pronounced

In addition to May's identity, the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension on Friday also identified the Bemidji Police

officer involved in the shooting as Bidal Duran and the Beltrami County deputy as Brandon Newhouse. Duran has

been with the department nearly six years, and Newhouse has been with the sheriff's office for two years. 

Both law enforcement officers were subsequently placed on administrative leave, which is standard procedure in

officer-related shootings. 

The BCA is conducting the investigation at the request of Bemidji police, the BCA said in a release. When the

investigation is complete, the BCA will turn its findings over to the Beltrami County Attorney's Office. 

By Friday, a protest had begun forming through social media, ultimately bringing upward of 60 people to the Paul

and Babe statues in downtown Bemidji on Friday night. A drum circle filled the winter night with the sound of

Native singers. 

local community. 

Although clarifying she was not a spokeswoman for the protest, Tami Liberty spoke to the crowd about the need to

move past violence and embrace peace. Another speaker, Bob Shimek, spoke about the prevalence of racism in the

"Everybody wants to be able to walk the streets of Bemidji and not have to worry about being shot by a police

officer or somebody else -- or somebody else," Liberty said. "We should not have to live in fear of any of it. Our

police officers shouldn't have to be in fear right now." 

The crowd walked from the Paul and Babe statues, through downtown, and gathered in the street between the

Beltrami County Courthouse and the Law Enforcement Center. On their way, they held up traffic, waving signs at

the waiting vehicles. 

The crowd could be heard chanting "Hands Up! Don't Shoot!" as they made their way, walking in the middle of the

street. The drum circle began singing, once again, in front of the Law Enforcement Center, which is home to both

the Bemidji Police Department and Beltrami County Sheriff's Office. The crowd began shouting "Vernon May."

Other times, the air simply echoed with the sounds of car horns and random yells. 

While Wednesday's shooting may have sparked Friday's protest, several who took part in the march said it was

about a bigger issue the Native community faces. 

"It's about all the shootings; I want to find justice for all indigenous people," said Dalene Fajardo of Red Lake. 

Social media also had a range of other comments since Thursday morning, when news of the shooting broke,

some of which were thanking the police and the sheriff's office for doing their part to keep the community safe. 

Before Wednesday's shooting, May had had previous encounters with law enforcement. Among them, he'd been

charged in August with carrying a pistol while under the influence of a controlled substance. He'd also been

charged with fifth-degree drug possession in September. 

The complaint for the drug charge said May was one of multiple people in a vehicle. The complaint further said the

deputy approached the vehicle with caution since both May and the other individual in the car had "routinely been

found in possession of a firearm." 

west. 

May also was shot during a dispute this past spring in Eckles Township, which borders the city of Bemidji to the

Wednesday's incident was the second officer-involved shooting to take place in rural, northern Minnesota within

two days. In Virginia, Minn., an officer responded to a 911 call on Tuesday from a woman after a man had allegedly

approached her vehicle in the street. After arriving, the officers found the suspect holding another man who he'd

grabbed from the sidewalk. Sometime after that, an officer discharged their weapon and struck the suspect, who

was later identified as J Scot Alan Widmark, 41 of Virginia. 

Subject:

Social networks; Community; Shootings; Criminal investigations; Law enforcement;

CREDIT: By Jordan Shearer 
 
 


 
Jan. 17--BEMIDJI -- The Beltrami County Attorney's Office is reviewing the officer-involved fatal shooting of Vernon

May after having received most of the evidence from the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension. 

The BCA began investigating right after the shooting on Nov. 28 in Bemidji. It then forwarded much of the

investigation over to the Beltrami County Attorney's Office in December. Although the BCA has yet to officially

close its portion of the investigation, Beltrami County Attorney David Hanson said he has received all pertinent

information needed for his office to go forward with the case. 

"I'm actively reviewing it," Hanson said. 

However, Hanson couldn't say how long it would take to review the information and determine if any charges are

warranted. 

in May's death. 

May, 34, of Red Lake, died late on Nov. 28 after a Bemidji police officer initiated a traffic stop near the intersection

of Ridgeway Avenue NW and 30th Street, near the Paul Bunyan Mall. A Beltrami County Sheriff's deputy arrived on

scene shortly after the stop was made. 

May, who was in the back seat, was asked to get out of the vehicle since he had a felony-level warrant. The officer

and deputy saw that May had a gun, and the officer, Bidal Duran, began struggling with May for control of the

weapon. Sometime after that, both Duran and the deputy, Brandon Newhouse, fired their weapons, which resulted

Both Duran and Newhouse were placed on administrative leave after the shooting took place. Newhouse then

returned to work Dec. 19. As of Wednesday, Duran remained on administrative leave. 

The shooting has caused substantial unrest within the Native American community, which has called for more

clarity regarding what happened during the traffic stop. Because of that, Police Chief Mike Mastin issued a

statement Dec. 14, indicating that the footage from Duran's body camera eventually would be made public. 

The officer-involved shooting in Bemidji is only one of a handful that have taken place in northern Minnesota over

the past few months. One took place in Virginia, Minn., just a day before the Bemidji Incident. That case is a little

farther along than its Bemidji counterpart, as St. Louis County Attorney Mark Rubin announced last week that the

officer was justified in the shooting. Another officer-involved shooting took place in Duluth this past weekend, on

Sunday, Jan. 13. 

CREDIT: By Jordan Shearer 
 
 


 
Dec. 03--The man who was shot and killed by police during a traffic stop in Bemidji on Wednesday night has been

Vernon May, 34, of Red Lake died of multiple gunshot wounds, the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension

identified. 

said Friday. 

The names of the two officers who discharged their firearms during the incident were also identified: Officer Bidal

Duran, who has been with the Bemidji Police Department for six years and Deputy Brandon Newhouse, who has

been with the Beltrami County Sheriff's Office for two years. 

Both are on standard administrative leave. 

According to police: 

Officer Duran made a traffic stop about 10:55 p.m. Wednesday near the intersection of 30th Street NW and

Ridgeway Avenue. Duran determined that a passenger in the back seat had a warrant for an arrest on an

undisclosed allegation. Deputy Newhouse was called to assist. 

As the passenger, later identified as May, got out of the vehicle as ordered, Duran and Newhouse saw that he had a

handgun. Duran and May struggled for control of the gun, and the officers subsequently fired their guns and struck

The BCA is conducting the investigation. When complete, the agency will turn its findings over to the Beltrami

the suspect. 

County Attorney's Office for review. 

CREDIT: By Mara Klecker 
 
 


 
Dec. 12--BEMIDJI -- The law enforcement officers involved in a recent fatal shooting have no complaints filed

against them or any disciplinary actions in their personnel files to date. 

The Beltrami County Sheriff's Office and the Bemidji Police Department recently released background information

on the deputy and officer who shot and killed Vernon May during a traffic stop at the end of November. The

agencies released the information in response to a public data request from the Pioneer. 

May, 34, of Red Lake, died late on Wednesday, Nov. 28, during the traffic stop at the intersection of Ridgeway

Avenue NW and 30th Street NW, which is near the Paul Bunyan Mall. 

According to law enforcement officials, Bemidji Police Officer Bidal Duran initiated the traffic stop, and Beltrami

County Sheriff's Deputy Brandon Newhouse arrived shortly thereafter. May, who was in the back seat of the

vehicle, was asked to get out since he had a felony warrant. Both Duran and Newhouse noticed May had a

handgun, and Duran and May subsequently began to struggle for control of the weapon, according to the original

press release about the shooting. Sometime after that, both Duran and Newhouse fired their weapons, which

resulted in May's death. 

The Bureau of Criminal Apprehension has begun investigating the shooting and subsequent death. The BCA will

not release any facts about the investigation until it has been completed, officials there said. Following the

shooting, both Duran and Newhouse were placed on paid administrative leave, which is standard procedure for the

situation. Once the investigation is complete, the BCA will turn over its findings to the Beltrami County Attorney's

Office, who would then file any charges in the death. 

According to documents from the data request, Duran joined the Bemidji Police Department in January 2013,

which was his first civilian job in law enforcement. In addition to his work at the department, he was honorably

discharged from the U.S. Marine Corps. He graduated from BSU with a degree in criminal justice. He also

graduated from the Hibbing Community College Peace Officer Education Program. His age was not included in the

released documents, and officials did not return requests for that information. 

According to his record, Duran has not received any complaints or disciplinary treatment for his conduct. He has,

however, received multiple commendations from the Police Department. However, the department would not

release the nature of those commendations. 

he was promoted to the position of deputy. 

Newhouse, 23, joined the Beltrami County Sheriff's Office as a bailiff in October 2015. Approximately a year later,

Before joining the county, he graduated from BSU, majoring in criminal justice. He also completed the Law

Enforcement Skills program at Alexandria Technical and Community College. Like Duran, Newhouse has not

received any complaints or disciplinary marks for his conduct. 

He does, however, have several commendations to his name, a couple of which refer to situations where a suspect

possessed a firearm. 

In one situation, Newhouse was part of a team of law enforcement officials who responded to a call of gunshots

after a male reportedly threatened two other males and "fired multiple rounds into the air." According to the

commendation, the authorities arrested the suspect and confiscated the weapon without anyone getting hurt. 

Duran also was part of the team that responded to the situation, according to a list of officials to responded to the

scene. 

In another report, Newhouse was part of a team that responded to a situation where a man threatened to shoot his

family, shot a round into the air, and then turned the gun to his own head. 

"The subject was wanting a lethal confrontation with law enforcement," the report said. 

The report then said Newhouse helped maintain the situation until the SWAT team arrived on scene. The suspect

was then arrested using "less lethal methods" which resulted in "minor injuries." 

Shootings; Criminal investigations; Law enforcement; Firearms; Community colleges

CREDIT: By Jordan Shearer 
 
 


Footage shows Minnesota man raised gun before - Associated Press
State Wire: Minnesota (MN) - August 17, 2018
August 17, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN)

ST . PAUL, Minn. (AP) — Police in St. Paul released body camera footage Friday that shows a man
was armed with a gun before officers shot and killed him during an early morning confrontation.

Officers Matthew Jones and Vincent Adams shot William James Hug hes
building porch Aug. 5. Hughes' family has questioned why he had to die.

William James Hug hes , 43, on an apartment

State investigators are still reviewing the incident but Police Chief T odd Axtell took the unusual step
of releasing the officers' bodycam footage before the probe is complete. Axtell said during a news
conference before showing the video to reporters that the shooting has generated "widespread
rumors and falsehoods" that could erode public trust in police and place officers in danger.

T he footage shows Jones and Adams enter the enclosed porch and knock on a door. Hughes
emerges from another door with a pistol in his right hand. As the officers yell at him to put his
hands up, he moves the gun toward the ceiling. T he pistol momentarily points toward the officers
as he swings it upward and one or both of them open fire.

A search warrant application the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension filed this week
indicates the incident began when Hughes became angry and fired two or three shots into a wall
and then pointed his gun at his roommate's head. T he roommate fled and called police.

Hughes was a member of the White Earth Nation, an Ojibwe band based in northern Minnesota.
Relatives told investigators he had been suicidal over a terminal illness that limited his quality of life,
according to the warrant application.

Axtell said he had watched the footage with Hughes' family. He held up two envelopes at the news
conference saying they contained cards Hughes' sister asked him to deliver to Adams and Jones.

"T his is the first time in my 30-year career that I've ever seen such grace by a family met by such a
tragedy," Axtell said.

Ramsey County Attorney John Choi issued a statement saying the video is hard to watch but is just
one piece of evidence in the case. T he BCA is relaying information daily and he plans to analyze all
the data before deciding whether the shooting was justified, Choi said.

John Gordon, executive director of the Minnesota chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union,
issued a statement questioning whether officers truly had to fire.

"Having a gun, in and of itself, is not reason enough for someone to be shot," Gordon said.
"Officers need extensive training on how to secure an area and de-escalate dangerous situations

so that shootings are a last resort, not a routine practice. T hat, unfortunately, did not happen for
William Hughes."

St. Paul Mayor Melvin Carter issued a statement saying the footage is "heartbreaking" and the city
wishes the shooting had never happened.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

St. Paul - BCA's probe of fatal police shooting is - St. Paul Pioneer Press
(MN) - September 20, 2018 - page A2
September 20, 2018 | St. Paul Pioneer Press (MN) | Page A2

T he Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension has turned its investigation into the fatal shooting
of William James Hug hes
William James Hug hes  by St. Paul police officers over to the Ramsey County attorney's office,
the state agency said Wednesday.

T he Ramsey County attorney's office has "been reviewing the evidence as it has been gathered
since this investigation began," spokesman Dennis Gerhardstein said Wednesday. "We are
committed to being thorough and diligent in our review and hope to have a decision made in the
coming weeks."

T he BCA began its investigation when Hughes was killed Aug. 5 in the Summit-University
neighborhood.

St. Paul Police Chief T odd Axtell released body camera footage of the incident on Aug. 17, saying
two officers open fire after Hughes, 43, raised a gun "in a sweeping fashion over the officers."

T he confrontation with Hughes began after a 911 caller reported on Aug. 5 at 2:34 a.m.: "Multiple
gun shots. 905 St. Anthony (Ave.) on the second floor" and then hung up, according to a transcript
of the call released by police on Friday.

T he first officers to arrive, Vince Adams and Matt Jones, entered an enclosed porch, Axtell said.
Adams knocked on an apartment door and a man could be heard saying, "I will kill you" and then
Hughes opened the door, Axtell has said.

Ramsey County Attorney John Choi previously said his office will analyze all the evidence gathered
by the BCA to decide whether the officers' use of lethal force was justified under the law.

Choi requested prosecutors conduct their review simultaneously with the BCA's investigation and
the BCA agreed to present his office with evidence as they collected it.

-- Mara H. Gottfried

Copyrig ht 2018 Saint Paul Pioneer Press

 

 
The older sister of William James Hughes, who was fatally shot by St. Paul police officers this month, is raising

money for a headstone and burial plot. 

“I would like a proper headstone so the world can know he existed and remember him,” Libby Meyers wrote

Monday on a donation website at gofundme.com/bill-hughes-memorial. 

Meyers said last week that she is waiting for answers about what happened to Hughes, 43, until she can see

officers’ body camera footage and the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension does its investigation. 

St. Paul police officers responded to a 911 call of multiple shots fired on the upper floor of a multi-unit dwelling at

905 St. Anthony Ave. on Aug. 5 at 2:30 a.m., the BCA has said. 

After Hughes came out of an apartment door, two officers shot him. 

Publication title:

Saint Paul Pioneer Press; Saint Paul, Minn.

Credit: Mara H. Gottfried 
 
 

Relatives demand answers as IDs in police shooting - Associated Press
State Wire: Minnesota (MN) - August 8, 2018
August 8, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN) | STEVE KARNOWSKI Associated Press

MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Relatives of a man shot to death by St. Paul police officers have joined calls
for the immediate release of the officers' body camera videos and the 911 call that preceded his
death.

T he Bureau of Criminal Apprehension said in a statement Tuesday that William James Hug hes
William James Hug hes ,
43, died of multiple gunshot wounds early Sunday after officers responded to a 911 call of multiple
shots fired on the upper floor of the St. Paul apartment building where he lived.

T he BCA said its preliminary investigation found that Officers Matthew Jones and Vincent Adams
entered an enclosed porch and knocked on one of two exterior apartment doors. Hughes
emerged from the other door and at some point the officers shot him. He died at the scene .

Hughes' relatives and their supporters held a vigil Monday evening outside the Minneapolis
American Indian Center, beating a drum and singing in his honor. He was a member of the White
Earth Nation, an Ojibwe band based in northern Minnesota. T hey said his death was especially
painful because his cousin was killed in a confrontation with police in 2015.

"T hrough our grief and difficulty, we have been left with more questions than answers as to why
police officers decided to abruptly and violently take Billy's life," said his cousin, Dannah T hompson.

T he BCA's statement didn't say why the officers opened fire or give any other details about what
transpired during the confrontation. But police spokesman Sgt. Mike Ernster said Sunday that the
man was armed with a handgun, and that their body cameras were activated. A gun was recovered
at the scene, the BCA said without providing further details about the weapon.

Asked what led officers to shoot and where the gun was recovered, BCA spokeswoman Jill Oliveira
said those details are part of the ongoing investigation, and that under state law the agency can't
discuss active investigations.

T hompson said the family wants police to immediately release the officers' body camera videos
and the 911 call.

When the family found out about Hughes' death, they said, "Not again," his aunt said.

Hughes' cousin, Philip Quinn, was fatally shot by a St. Paul officer in 2015. Investigators said Quinn
was schizophrenic and suicidal when he charged the officer with a screwdriver. A grand jury cleared
the officers involved.

"When is it going to stop?" asked Kathy Ficken, the aunt of both Hughes and Quinn.

St. Paul Mayor Melvin Carter repeated his call Tuesday for quick release of the videos.

Carter told reporters he wants the police chief to work with the BCA to release the footage
"immediately." But he said key witnesses must be interviewed and relatives of the man who was
killed should view it first. T he mayor also wants audio release of the 911 call.

Both officers were wearing activated body cameras. Carter said he has not seen the footage but
said it belongs to the city and should be made available as soon as possible.

St. Paul Police Chief T odd Axtell said in a statement Tuesday he expects to share the videos with
Hughes' family and release them to the public within the next 10 days. He said releasing the
footage any sooner "could obstruct our ability to reach the truth."

In a statement T uesday, the BCA said the agency is committed "to a fair, impartial and thorough
investigation" of what led to Hughes' death. T he agency said it is conducting interviews and
analyzing evidence, and while it cannot speak for St. Paul, the BCA said it will release all public data
once the case is closed.

T he Minnesota chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union issued a statement Monday calling on
investigators to be more transparent.

"Whenever police kill someone, it is a tragedy," the chapter's legal director, Teresa Nelson, said in a
statement. "A police shooting can affect the whole community. T he residents of St. Paul along
with the family ... deserve to know what happened in this tragic incident. T he investigation should
be transparent and done in a timely manner."

When the BCA completes its investigation, the Ramsey County attorney's office will review the
findings and decide if charges are warranted.

Jones and Adams are on standard paid leave while the investigation proceeds. T hey both joined the
force in 2013. Jones' father, Tim Jones, was a St. Paul officer who was slain in 1994 by a man who
was on the run after killing another officer earlier that day.

Personnel files released Tuesday show mostly clean records plus words of praise. Adams was
reprimanded in 2014 for a preventable squad car accident in which he was following someone too
closely, but he got a medal of commendation last year.

Chief Axtell's letter about the medal noted that Adams was nominated as the 2016 Officer of the
Year in the Western District for "exemplary performance," partly for an incident that began with a
car chase that officers broke off for safety. Adams and his partner tracked the suspect down a few
weeks later. Adams got hurt in the ensuing scuffle and was unable to work patrol for several
months, but he took a leading role in a successful crime reduction project while on light duty, the
chief said.

Jones has no disciplinary actions in his file, but it contains several thank-you notes, including one in
2013 from a Ramsey County Adult Mental Health official praising him and another officer for their

skills in de-escalating a psychotic man and getting him to a hospital.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
State agency identifies man shot by police, - Associated Press State
Wire: Minnesota (MN) - August 7, 2018
August 7, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN)

ST . PAUL, Minn. (AP) — T he state agency investigating a fatal shooting by St. Paul police has
identified the man who died and the officers who shot him.

William James
T he Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension said Tuesday that 43-year-old William James
H ug hes
H ug hes  died of multiple gunshot wounds early Sunday after officers responded to a 911 call of
gunfire in an apartment building.

T he agency says its preliminary investigation shows Officers Matthew Jones and Vincent Adams
entered an enclosed porch and knocked on an apartment door. Hughes emerged from another
door and officers shot him. He was pronounced dead at the scene .

Authorities say a gun has been recovered.

When the BCA completes its investigation, it will turn over a report to the Ramsey County Attorney
for review on whether charges are warranted.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Quick release of - body-cam video - enhances - Lima News, The (OH) -
August 14, 2018
August 14, 2018 | Lima News, The (OH) | Los Angeles Times

In the wake of angry, traffic-blocking protests, the mayor and police chief of St. Paul, Minn., have
promised the quick release of video images captured by body cameras worn by two officers
involved in the fatal shooting Sunday of William “B illy” James Hug hes
prompt release of video in such incidents ought to be automatic and not dependent on the volume
of protests or the pressure felt by public officials.

William “B illy” James Hug hes . It’s the right move, but

Fatal police shootings are now far more widely known and discussed than in the past, in part
because of activism and protests, but also because of the prevalence of video-capable phones
among the public and body cameras worn by police. Video images provide an incomplete yet
essential view of critical incidents, and in the aggregate they give the public a better understanding
of police work. Quickly releasing body-camera video can help enhance public trust in police. Delays
can do the opposite.

And releasing video only after public outcry sends the message that police responsiveness and
transparency should come only upon demand and not as a matter of course.

A growing number of the nation’s roughly 15,000 local law enforcement agencies, including the St.
Paul and Los Angeles police departments, now use body cameras. In March, the Los Angeles Police
Commission adopted a policy of releasing video recordings within 45 days of the incident.
Automatic release (except in the case of extenuating circumstances) is an improvement over the
previous approach, under which video was released if and when it suited the department.

Under the new policy, the Los Angeles Police Department has now released nine video recordings
of critical incidents, including one on Saturday that shows a June 20 shooting in Porter Ranch. Late
last month it released a recording of the accidental shooting of a hostage in Van Nuys. Also last
month, it wisely — well in advance of the deadline and within days — released video of the high-
profile Silver Lake Trader Joe’s incident in which police killed a hostage.

T he 45-day grace period between the incident and video release is meant to ensure that no
witnesses will be endangered and that prosecutions will not be undermined. T hose are worthy
goals. But the period is too long, and the editing that the LAPD does — to give the public a better
understanding of what is being depicted, police say — may actually undermine confidence in police
transparency if they are not also accompanied by the full, unedited video.

So far, though, the release policy has worked as it should and is one factor in moving the LAPD
from one of the nation’s least transparent police agencies to one of the better ones.

At the back of the pack is the L.A. County Sheriff’s Department, which still has neither body
cameras nor a video release policy. T hat puts it behind numerous jurisdictions, large and small,

including St. Paul, where police can now respond to demands for information over the Hughes
shooting.

Or in Florida, where the Volusia County Sheriff’s Department released video of a fatal deputy-
involved shooting on Friday.

Los Angeles County officials have been mulling a body-camera program for years but haven’t
gotten the job done. On T uesday, the Board of Supervisors called for a study — although the
county has already studied the issue extensively — and another five months to complete it.

What’s really needed is a county budget allocation to get the body cameras on sheriff’s deputies as
quickly as possible, and a sheriff’s policy governing public release.

L.A. County’s Sheriff Civilian Oversight Commission filed a report on July 26 that urges the county to
move forward on body cameras and details the advantages, beyond informing the public of what
happened during a critical police incident such as a fatal shooting. Members found that just
knowing the cameras are there improves the behavior of both officers and the people they
encounter. Fewer complaints are filed.

Video also is essential to criminal defendants — and to police officers — who are falsely accused.
It’s also essential to plaintiffs seeking to vindicate their civil rights.

Some privacy activists and police critics assert that body cameras are part of a program of
surveillance and criminalization, especially of nonwhite communities. But that’s why it’s not enough
to have the cameras. T hey must be governed by a carefully crafted and enforceable policy. T hey
have done it at the LAPD and in St. Paul, and at thousands of other law enforcement agencies.
T hey ought to be able to do it in Los Angeles County as well.

© 2018 AIM Media Midwest Operating , LLC.

 
Police: Footage within 10 days - Axtell responds - St. Paul Pioneer Press
(MN) - August 8, 2018 - page A4
August 8, 2018 | St. Paul Pioneer Press (MN) | Mara H. Gottfried mgottfried@pioneerpress.com | Page A4

St. Paul's police chief said Tuesday that he expects to release body-camera footage from police
officers who fatally shot a 43-year-old man within the next 10 days.

"Releasing the video any sooner could obstruct our ability to reach the truth," T odd Axtell said in a
statement following Mayor Melvin Carter's call for the videos to be made public as soon as
possible.

Meanwhile, the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension released information for the first time
William "B illy" James Hug hes .
T uesday about its investigation into the shooting of William "B illy" James Hug hes

BCA crime-scene personnel recovered a gun at the scene of Sunday's Summit-University
neighborhood shooting, according to a statement from the state agency.

A St. Paul police spokesman said Sunday that Hughes was armed with a handgun.

FOOT AGE RELEASE

At a Tuesday afternoon news conference, Carter said that while release of the body-camera
footage and 911 call that led police to the residence at 905 St. Anthony Ave. "will not provide all of
the answers we are all seeking, it will provide more information about the circumstances that led to
such a tragic outcome."

Information from investigations into officer-involved shootings, including video footage, has
traditionally been released in Minnesota after investigations are concluded.

But Carter noted that a law enforcement agency can make information public before an
investigation is finished for several reasons, including to "dispel widespread rumor or unrest."

"I think we've seen plenty of speculation, of guesses, of rumors ... that show that people in this
community are concerned and would like a better sense of what happened in this situation," said
Carter of the first police-involved shooting to occur since he became mayor in January.

Carter said he believes initial statements should be collected from "key known witnesses and the
officers" involved, so the integrity of the investigation is not compromised. Hughes' family should
also get to view the footage before it's publicly released, Carter said.

T he mayor said he asked Axtell to work with the BCA to ensure those two conditions are met "as
soon as possible" for the videos and 911 call to be released.

BCA: HUGHES EMERGED FROM DOOR

St. Paul police officers responded about 2:30 a.m. Sunday to a 911 call of multiple shots fired on an
upper floor of a multi-unit rental property.

T he BCA said it found, in its preliminary investigation, that officers entered an enclosed porch and
knocked on one of two interior apartment doors.

T hat's when a man, later identified as Hughes, emerged through the other door, the statement
said.

"At one point the officers discharged their firearms, striking Hughes," according to the BCA
statement.

Paramedics pronounced Hughes dead at the scene. He died of multiple gunshot wounds,
according to the BCA.

Asked what led officers to shoot and where the gun was recovered, BCA spokeswoman Jill Oliveira
wrote in an email Tuesday that "(a)dditional details are part of the BCA's ongoing investigation.
Under Minnesota law, the BCA is not allowed to discuss active investigations."

HUGHES REMEMBERED

On Monday, Hughes' family said they had more questions than answers, and they listed their
demands. T hey included: T he immediate release of the body-camera footage and 911 calls; an
audit of officers' actions as they relate to the department's use-of-force policy; change to
Minnesota law on officers' use of deadly force, which they say allows too much discretion; and an
independent investigation, not by the BCA.

A friend of Hughes remembered him Tuesday as "having a great heart and a great soul."

"Bill was very wise," said Jason T arasewicz. "He had made it through a lot of things. I don't think I
would be where I am if he hadn't told me about how he got through struggles in his life."

Hughes was a jokester, and he used to say "he could determine if someone was a good person
based on how his cat reacted," T arasewicz said.

INFORMAT ION SOUGHT

T he BCA confirmed the officers involved were Vincent Adams and Matthew Jones, who both have
five years with the St. Paul department. T hey are on standard paid administrative leave.

"T his is an open and active investigation and the BCA continues to conduct interviews and analyze
evidence to determine the facts of the incident," the state agency said in the Tuesday statement.

T he BCA is asking anyone who witnessed the incident or captured video to contact them at 651-
793-7000.

When the investigation is complete, the BCA will turn its findings over to the Ramsey County
attorney's office for review.

'VERY DANGEROUS SIT UAT ION'

St. Paul police personnel records show Jones has no disciplinary history and Adams received an oral
reprimand in 2014 for a preventable squad car crash.

Axtell awarded Adams a medal of commendation last summer and noted he had been nominated
for 2016 Officer of the Year.

Dave T itus, president of the St. Paul Police Federation, said Tuesday that "it's a difficult time for
Mr. Hughes' loved ones. It's also a very rough time for the cops and their families that were placed
in this situation."

"Our cops were called to address a very dangerous situation that was created, for unknown
reasons, by Mr. Hughes," Titus said. "I believe our cops protected lives that morning."

PROT EST  AT  WESTERN DIST RICT

About 100 people rallied outside the Western District headquarters of the St. Paul Police
Department on Tuesday evening to protest the fatal shooting of Hughes by its officers.

Sue GoodStar, an elder with Native Lives Matter, said Hughes' death is another in a long line of
"stolen lives on stolen land."

GoodStar and others who spoke at the roughly two-hour demonstration demanded that body-
camera footage of the shooting be immediately released and that his body be turned over to his
family.

Sydney Brown, a cousin of Thurman Blevins, who was shot to death by police in Minneapolis in
June, called for the prosecution of the officers who killed both men.

"T hey did not deserve to die," Brown said of Blevins and Hughes.

T he crowd left the police station at Hamline and St. Anthony avenues about 8 p.m. to march east
along University Avenue chanting, "No justice, no peace! Prosecute the police!"

Nick Woltman contributed to this report.

Mara H. Gottfried can be reached at 651-228-5262 and mgottfried@pioneerpress.com, or on
T witter at @MaraGottfried.

--------------------------------------------------------------

IF YOU GO

What: T he city of St. Paul and Hallie Q. Brown Community Center are hosting a gathering where
facilitators will lead small-group discussions about the police-involved shooting.

When: 6-8 p.m. Wednesday

Where: Hallie Q. Brown Community Center, 270 N. Kent St., St. Paul

Copyrig ht 2018 Saint Paul Pioneer Press

 
Family wants answers after shooting - Man's cousin - Grand Forks
Herald (ND) - August 7, 2018 - page A5
August 7, 2018 | Grand Forks Herald (ND) | Mara H. Gottfried | Page A5

ST . PAUL - When the family of William "B illy" James Hug hes
by St. Paul police officers, they said, "Not again," his aunt explained Monday, Aug. 6.

William "B illy" James Hug hes  found out he had been fatally shot

A cousin of Hughes', Philip Quinn, was killed in a confrontation with officers in St. Paul in 2015.

"When is it going to stop?" Kathy Ficken, the aunt of Hughes and Quinn, said as she wept after a
rally in Minneapolis. "T hey have to stop. They're ruining every-body's life. He needs justice."

Police said they were called to a multi-unit rental property in St. Paul about 2:30 a.m. Sunday, Aug.
5. T hey were summoned by a 911 caller who reported multiple shots fired, according to police.

When officers arrived, they encountered a man with a gun, police said Sunday. Two officers fired
and struck the man. Para-medics pronounced him dead at the scene.

T he Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is investigating and has not released additional
information. A spokesman said they would when initial interviews are completed. But family and
community members called for answers on Monday.

"Our community experienced a terrible tragedy" when Hughes, 43, was killed, said Dannah
T hompson, Hughes' cousin. She described him as beloved and said he was a member of the White
Earth Nation, a northern Minnesota Ojibwe community.

"T hrough our grief and difficulty, we have been left with more questions than answers as to why
police officers decided to abruptly and violently take Billy's life," Thompson said.

Officers' body cameras were activated at the time of the shooting, and Mayor Melvin Carter is
"looking for an expedited release" of the footage, Liz Xiong, his press secretary, said Monday.

Carter canceled his scheduled plans and meetings on Sunday and Monday "to really focus on this
and work with the chief of police and BCA (Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension) to move
along releasing the video as soon as possible," Xiong said.

Resident saw man's body on front porch

Mary Pinales, who lives in the residence where Hughes was killed, said she was awakened early
Sunday by a gunshot. She looked outside and saw police. Pinales said police officers banged on her
door, told her to put her hands up and asked if anyone else was up there. She said they checked
her apartment and then led her down the stairs, the only way out.

At the bottom of the stairs, on the enclosed front porch, Pinales said she saw her neighbor and
could tell he was already dead.

Pinales said she was barefoot, and officers lifted her up to carry her over the blood and outside.

T he wood floor was still bloodstained Sunday night, but Pinales found the blood had apparently
been scraped off when she returned Monday morning. T here were small holes in the porch's wall
that Pinales said weren't there before and she believes are bullet holes.

Meanwhile, a 12-year-old girl who lives in the building with her family said she was in her bedroom,
just below the porch, and talking to her best friend on the phone early Sunday. She heard loud
footsteps on the porch above, which she figures were officers' shoes. She then heard shouting
and gunshots. Her friend asked, "What is that?" and she responded, "bullets!"

T he girl said she dived under her bed. Her father asked that she not be identified for her safety.

Pinales, who didn't know Hughes well, said he had moved in to the building four or five months
ago. He was a quiet person who did maintenance work around the property. When Pinales needed
her lights fixed, her landlord told her to knock on her neighbor's door and Hughes helped her. He
also did painting around the home, Pinales recalled.

ACLU calls for transparency

T eresa Nelson, legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union of Minnesota, called on Sunday
for the officers' body camera footage to be released.

Nelson said on Monday that U.S. Department of Justice best practices indicate that preliminary
incident information should be released to the public within eight hours, and she said the federal
agency also recommends within 24 hours that authorities should brief community leaders and lay
out a time-line of the investigatory process.

"Whenever police kill someone, it is a tragedy," Nelson said in Monday's statement. "A police
shooting can affect the whole community. T he residents of St. Paul along with the family of the
unnamed individual deserve to know what happened in this tragic incident."

In the case of Phillip Quinn, Hughes' cousin who was killed in 2015, a grand jury did not file charges
against the officers involved.

One cop is son of slain officer

T he BCA hasn't released the names of the officers who shot the man, but sources said they are
Matthew Jones and Vincent Adams, who both became St. Paul officers in 2013.

Jones was 8 years old when his father, St. Paul officer Tim Jones, was shot and killed. It was during
the search for the man who fatally shot fellow officer Ron Ryan Jr. earlier on Aug. 26, 1994.

Ron Ryan Sr., a retired St. Paul police commander and father of Ron Ryan Jr., said he was glad to

hear the officers were uninjured Sunday, but "as far as the toll it takes on them emotionally and the
damage done to their family, it's tremendous, especially in this day and age."

Ryan said he got to know the young Jones after the 1994 murders, for which Guy Harvey Baker
was sent to prison.

"Matt has kind of the same personality as his dad," Ryan said Monday. "His dad was very social,
and Matt seems to be the same way. He's very serious about the job from everyone I talk to, and I
hear that he's a great officer."

Generally speaking, reports of someone shooting a gun in a house "are probably one of the most
dangerous calls (officers) go on," said Sgt. Mike Ernster, a St. Paul police spokesman.

"No officer ever wants to be involved in a situation like this," Ernster said Sunday. "It's something
that changes them forever and obviously impacts the families involved in this, and our heart goes
out to them. It's a tragic situation."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Grand Forks Herald

 
BCA Investigating St. Paul Officer Involved - Targeted News Service
(USA) - August 7, 2018
August 7, 2018 | Targeted News Service (USA) | Press Releases

ST . PAUL, Minnesota, Aug. 7 -- T he Minnesota Department of Public Safety issued the following
news release:

T he Minnesota Department of Public Safety Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA) has identified
two officers who discharged their firearms during a fatal officer involved shooting incident that
happened on Sunday. Both are on standard administrative leave.

* Officer Matthew Jones has been with the St. Paul Police Department for five years.

* Officer Vincent Adams has also been with the department for five years.

In addition, the Ramsey County Medical Examiner's Office has identified the individual who died
during the incident as William James Hug hes
died of multiple gunshot wounds. T he BCA is investigating the incident at the request of the St.
Paul Police Department.

William James Hug hes , 43, of 905 St. Anthony Avenue in St. Paul. Hughes

St. Paul police officers at approximately 2:30 a.m. Sunday responded to a 911 call of multiple shots
fired on the upper floor of a multi-unit dwelling at 905 St. Anthony Avenue in St. Paul.

According to the BCA's preliminary investigation, the officers entered an enclosed porch and
knocked on one of two interior apartment doors. A man, now identified as Hughes, emerged
through the other door. At one point the officers discharged their firearms, striking Hughes. Mr.
Hughes was pronounced deceased at the scene.

BCA crime scene personnel later recovered a gun at the scene. Both officers were wearing body
cameras, which captured the incident.

T his is an open and active investigation and the BCA continues to conduct interviews and analyze
evidence to determine the facts of the incident. T he BCA requests that any member of the public
who witnessed or captured video of the incident contact the BCA at 651-793-7000.

When the investigation is complete, the BCA will turn its findings over without recommendation to
the Ramsey County Attorney's Office for review.

BCA Investigations of Officer Involved Incidents

BCA agents conduct thorough, independent investigations of conflict incidents, including officer
involved shootings, at the request of the local agency. T he BCA conducts these investigations, at
the request of local law enforcement agencies, if the case(s) meet the criteria necessary to require

an outside, independent review under the state's standard protocols.

Like other BCA investigations, an investigation into an officer involved incident will take as long as is
needed to get a complete understanding of the events that transpired. These investigations can
include:

* Processing scenes.

* Interviewing witnesses, including officers.

* Collecting and analyzing evidence.

Once all the information is gathered, the BCA completes a report on all of the facts in the case.
T he BCA then turns its findings over to a county attorney for a complete review and possible
charges.

Under Minnesota law, the BCA is not allowed to discuss active investigations. Once the
investigation is inactive, most data is public. (See Minnesota Statutes, section 13.82 subd. 7 for
more information).

MST RUCK-6400782 MST RUCK

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Targeted News Service. All rights reserved.

 
Protests disturbing, says sister of man fatally - St. Paul Pioneer Press
(MN) - August 11, 2018 - page A1
August 11, 2018 | St. Paul Pioneer Press (MN) | Mara H. Gottfried mgottfried@pioneerpress.com | Page A1

Libby Meyers wishes her brother were still alive. And she wishes the noise would stop.

As Meyers made funeral arrangements for William James Hug hes
the public firestorm that emerged since St. Paul police officers shot her brother last weekend.

William James Hug hes , she has been disturbed by

"It's really hard when you lose somebody, it's really hard when you lose them like this and it's really
hard when all of this stuff is on the news with people chanting 'Racism,' " Meyers said. "I don't think
it had anything to do with his race."

Hughes, 43, was a member of the White Earth Nation, a northern Minnesota Ojibwe community.

Native Lives Matter organizers, activists and other relatives of Hughes held protests during the
week, calling for justice.

Meyers doesn't understand why her brother was killed, but she doesn't want to speculate. She said
she will wait for answers until she can see officers' body camera footage and the Minnesota
Bureau of Criminal Apprehension does its investigation.

"I'm not pointing fingers," Meyers said.

RESPONSE T O 911 CALL

T he man who said he called 911 told the Pioneer Press he was a longtime friend of Hughes.

He said they were watching T V at Hughes' apartment in the Summit-University neighborhood
when Hughes suddenly jumped up and fired two shots at the wall. He was fearful, ran out of the
the apartment and called 911 to report shots fired.

T he man, who asked not to be named for his safety, went to a friend's house and found out later
that Hughes had been killed.

St. Paul police officers responded to a 911 call of multiple shots fired on the upper floor of a multi-
unit dwelling at 905 St. Anthony Ave., the BCA has said.

After Hughes came out of an apartment door, two officers shot him. T he BCA has not said what
led officers to shoot Hughes.

Officers were wearing body cameras and St. Paul Police Chief T odd Axtell said Tuesday he
anticipates releasing videos within 10 days, after letting Hughes' family view them first.

GREW UP IN PLYMOUT H WIT H ADVENTUROUS SPIRIT

T he snowboard that Hughes held in one of his high school senior pictures hinted at his
adventurous spirit.

"He wanted to see the whole planet," Meyers said.

T he siblings grew up in Plymouth, where Meyers said she watched over her younger brother. T hey
also have a younger half sister.

Hughes attended the Wayzata Public Schools, including Wayzata High School.

Hughes and Meyers used to work together, processing mortgages -- "he was very meticulous and
detail orientated," Meyers remembered. But they lost their jobs when the housing bubble burst.

Hughes was also mechanically inclined. He would mow lawns, shovel driveways, and do plumbing
and electrical work.

Neighbors in the St. Paul apartment building where Hughes was shot said he did handyman work
and painting around the building. Hearing about that didn't surprise Meyers -- "he was very kind-
hearted," she said.

BROT HER STRUGGLED WIT H CHEMICAL DEPENDENCY

T here was a point that Hughes and Meyers were next-door neighbors in Crystal, but they hadn't
been in contact in recent years.

Hughes struggled with chemical dependency, though he had done well in treatment at one point,
Meyers remembered.

But about five years ago, Meyers said, "I put my foot down one day and I said, 'I can't be in your
life if you're doing that because I can't see you do that.' I wish I would have ended with saying, 'Call
me when you stop doing it.'"

As far as Meyers knows, Hughes wasn't in touch with most relatives, though a cousin contacted
him about six weeks ago.

Hughes told the cousin "he was really sick" with a disease that caused scar tissue to form on his
organs and he said "his doctor thought he had less than a year left," according to Meyers.

'IS MY BROT HER DEAD?'

When BCA agents and St. Paul police investigators came to Meyers' home on Sunday, she said she
asked them, "Is my brother dead?"

"I didn't know why else the police would be coming to me," she said. "I was thinking that he

overdosed and they told me that he was killed in an officer-involved shooting."

Axtell, the police chief, called Meyers on Sunday.

"He said he was really sorry about my loss and when they know more information, they'll convey it
to me," Meyers said.

Meyers held a private funeral service for Hughes on Friday. She said she hopes to save up money
to purchase a headstone.

OT HER RELAT IVES SAY T HEY WANT  T O HOLD RALLIES

At a rally for Hughes on Monday, a woman who identified herself as relative said that Hughes was
a cousin of Philip Quinn, who was fatally shot by St. Paul officers in 2015.

Meyers said on Friday that she had never heard of Quinn before.

But Hughes' half sister, Melissa Waukazo, and her cousin, Deana Waukazo, said Friday that the
men were related.

Deana Waukazo said they have wanted to hold rallies for Hughes because "this whole thing just
doesn't make sense to us. We want justice and we don't want him to be forgotten."

Mara H. Gottfried can be reached at 651-228-5262 and mgottfried@pioneerpress.com, or on
T witter at @MaraGottfried.

Copyrig ht 2018 Saint Paul Pioneer Press

 
The Latest: 2 St. Paul officers' files contain - Associated Press State Wire:
Minnesota (MN) - August 7, 2018
August 7, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN)

ST . PAUL, Minn. (AP) — T he Latest on the fatal shooting of a man by St. Paul police officers (all
times local):

Personnel files for two St. Paul police officers involved in the fatal shooting of a man on Sunday
show mostly clean records plus words of praise.

Officer Vincent Adams was reprimanded in 2014 for a preventable squad car accident. But he got a
medal of commendation last year, partly for an incident that began with a car chase that officers
broke off for safety. Adams and his partner tracked the suspect down a few weeks later. While
Adams got hurt in the scuffle, he contributed to the success of a crime reduction project while on
light duty.

Officer Matthew Jones has no disciplinary actions in his file, but several thank-you notes, including
one in 2013 from a mental health official praising him for his skills in de-escalating a psychotic man.

4:22 p.m.

___

6:50 a.m.

T he state agency investigating a fatal shooting by St. Paul police has identified the man who died
and the officers who shot him.

William James
T he Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension said Tuesday that 43-year-old William James
H ug hes
H ug hes  died of multiple gunshot wounds early Sunday after officers responded to a 911 call of
gunfire in an apartment building.

T he agency says its preliminary investigation shows Officers Matthew Jones and Vincent Adams
entered an enclosed porch and knocked on an apartment door. Hughes emerged from another
door and officers shot him. He was pronounced dead at the scene .

Authorities say a gun has been recovered.

When the BCA completes its investigation, it will turn over a report to the Ramsey County Attorney
for review on whether charges are warranted.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Body-cam video shows suspect raising weapon - - St. Paul Pioneer Press
(MN) - August 18, 2018 - page A1
August 18, 2018 | St. Paul Pioneer Press (MN) | Mara H. Gottfried mgottfried@pioneerpress.com | Page A1

St. Paul police officers fatally shot a 43-year-old man after he raised a gun "in a sweeping fashion
over the officers," Police Chief T odd Axtell said Friday as he released body camera footage of the
incident.

Mayor Melvin Carter, along with some of William James Hug hes
members, had called for the release of the video in the Aug. 5 shooting. But the footage left some
people with more questions.

William James Hug hes ' family and community

Melissa Waukazo, Hughes' half sister, said she was angered when she saw the video.

"He did have a gun, but he did what they asked him to do and ... they still shot and killed him," she
said Friday.

Hughes' sister, Libby Meyers, met with Axtell to view the footage before he publicly released it. She
gave him two cards -- one for each of the officers involved. T he police chief said he doesn't know
what the cards say, but he intends to hand deliver them to the officers.

Axtell said what happened was a tragedy and added, "Our officers do not choose these situations.
T hese situations choose our officers."

OFFICERS HEARD 'I WILL KILL YOU'

T he confrontation with Hughes began after a 911 caller reported on Aug. 5 at 2:34 a.m.: "Multiple
gun shots. 905 St. Anthony (Ave.) on the second floor" and then hung up, according to a transcript
of the call released by police on Friday.

T he 911 caller, a man who had been staying with Hughes, later told Minnesota Bureau of Criminal
Apprehension investigators that Hughes fired two or three rounds into a bedroom wall and pointed
a gun at his head, according to an affidavit for a search warrant filed in Ramsey County District
Court this week. T he 911 caller ran out of the building in the Summit-University neighborhood.

T he first officers to arrive, Vince Adams and Matt Jones, entered an enclosed porch, Axtell said.

Adams knocked on an apartment door and a man could be heard saying, "I will kill you," Axtell
reported Friday.

"A few seconds later, Mr. Hughes opens the door," Axtell said.

FOOT AGE BRINGS DIFFERING VIEWS

In the body camera footage, the officers can be heard repeatedly shouting, "Put your hands up!"
when the door opens. After Hughes emerges from the doorway with a gun in his right hand, in
audio that's more difficult to make out, an officer apparently shouts, "Put it down!"

Axtell said of the footage, "You will see Mr. Hughes begin to raise the gun in a sweeping fashion
over the officers, who fired their service weapons."

Nekima Levy-Pounds, founder of Racial Justice Network, wrote on social media on Friday: "Do you
agree with the official police narrative on what happened to Billy Hughes? T his is highly disturbing
to say the least."

She added later that the "mere presence of a gun (if that's what was in his hand) does not
automatically pose a threat."

T he BCA has said investigators recovered a gun at the scene.

From the perspective of the St. Paul police union, president Dave Titus said Friday: "We believe our
officers involved acted heroically and are proud of them. T his video is some of the evidence that
demonstrates their professionalism and dedication to protecting innocent lives in our community."

T itus added in a statement, though, that he believes "the department should not have released this
video outside of the context of a complete and thorough investigation. T he officers, family, and
society deserve the complete story and not a piecemeal release of evidence."

HUGHES PREVIOUSLY TALKED OF SUICIDE

Axtell said when he met with the family on Friday, they talked about Hughes' "kind heart, how much
they miss him" and they shared stories of him, saying "that he was a good man, that he was in
pain."

BCA agents interviewed Hughes' relatives after the shooting. Relatives said Hughes had a medical
condition that was diagnosed as a terminal illness, according to a search warrant affidavit. Hughes
also had contact with relatives by text message about four months earlier to say he was
contemplating suicide, the affidavit said.

In a Friday statement, Carter called the body camera footage of Hughes' death "heartbreaking."

"A fatal officer-involved shooting is one of the toughest challenges a city can face," Carter said. "...
All of St. Paul is united today in mourning Billy Hughes, and in wishing this terrible incident had never
happened. As we process the range of emotions his death evokes, I remain committed to building
community, and to ensuring our officers are equipped with the tools, resources, and trust they
need to help us keep our neighborhoods safe."

INVEST IGAT ION IS CONT INUING

T he BCA continues to have an open and active investigation into the case, a spokeswoman said

Friday.

Information from investigations into officer-involved shootings, including video footage, has
traditionally been released in Minnesota after the probe is concluded.

Under Minnesota law, law enforcement agencies can release information to "promote public
safety, or dispel widespread rumor or unrest."

Axtell said Friday that he's "heard the clarion call from some community members for the body-
worn camera videos to be released, but what matters is the law."

He said he needed to answer the question of whether he could, in good conscience, release the
videos before the investigation is complete.

He concluded the answer was "yes" because he said he has "watched people repeat widespread
rumors, I have seen protesters in the street, and I know public angst can endanger our officers."

Axtell said he had also received word from the BCA that its agents had completed interviews with
key witnesses.

Ramsey County Attorney John Choi said in a Friday statement that while the body camera footage
"is one critical piece of evidence, it does not tell the entire story." He said his office will analyze all
the evidence gathered by the BCA to decide whether the officers' use of lethal force was justified
under the law.

"In the interest of speeding up our decision-making timeline, I have asked my team of prosecutors
to conduct our prosecution review simultaneously with the BCA's investigation, which includes
consulting independent use-of-force and police procedure experts," Choi wrote. He said the BCA
has agreed to present his office with evidence as it collects it.

Mara H. Gottfried can be reached at 651-228-5262 and mgottfried@pioneerpress.com, or on
T witter at @MaraGottfried.

Copyrig ht 2018 Saint Paul Pioneer Press

 
The Latest: St. Paul mayor pushes for bodycam - Associated Press State
Wire: Minnesota (MN) - August 7, 2018
August 7, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN)

ST . PAUL, Minn. (AP) — T he Latest on the fatal shooting of a man by St. Paul police officers (all
times local):

St. Paul Mayor Melvin Carter is pressing for release of police body camera footage taken by two
officers involved in a fatal shooting last weekend.

Carter told reporters Tuesday he wants the police chief to work with the Minnesota Bureau of
Criminal Apprehension to release the video "immediately." But he says key witnesses must be
interviewed and relatives of the man who was killed should view it first.

T he mayor also wants audio release of the 911 call about someone firing multiple shots that
brought officers to the apartment building early Sunday. T he BCA says a preliminary investigation
William James Hug hes  after he emerged from a door.
shows the two officers shot 43-year-old William James Hug hes

Both officers were wearing activated body cameras. Carter says he has not seen the footage but
says it belongs to the city and should be made available as soon as possible.

Personnel files for two St. Paul police officers involved in the fatal shooting of a man on Sunday
show mostly clean records plus words of praise.

Officer Vincent Adams was reprimanded in 2014 for a preventable squad car accident. But he got a
medal of commendation last year, partly for an incident that began with a car chase that officers
broke off for safety. Adams and his partner tracked the suspect down a few weeks later. While
Adams got hurt in the scuffle, he contributed to the success of a crime reduction project while on
light duty.

Officer Matthew Jones has no disciplinary actions in his file, but several thank-you notes, including
one in 2013 from a mental health official praising him for his skills in de-escalating a psychotic man.

5 p.m.

___

4:22 p.m.

___

6:50 a.m.

T he state agency investigating a fatal shooting by St. Paul police has identified the man who died
and the officers who shot him.

T he Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension said Tuesday that 43-year-old William James
William James
H ug hes
H ug hes  died of multiple gunshot wounds early Sunday after officers responded to a 911 call of
gunfire in an apartment building.

T he agency says its preliminary investigation shows Officers Matthew Jones and Vincent Adams
entered an enclosed porch and knocked on an apartment door. Hughes emerged from another
door and officers shot him. He was pronounced dead at the scene .

Authorities say a gun has been recovered.

When the BCA completes its investigation, it will turn over a report to the Ramsey County Attorney
for review on whether charges are warranted.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

Deputy cleared in fatal McElmo Canyon shootout, - Durango Herald, The
(CO) - October 31, 2018
October 31, 2018 | Durango Herald, The (CO) | Jim Mimiaga

A U.S. attorney has cleared a Montezuma County sheriff's deputy who killed a man during a
shootout in McElmo Canyon in February, but the deputy has been fired for violating department
policy.

Sgt. Edward Oxley killed Fordell H ill
gunfire. Two unidentified people who were in the car with Hill were taken into custody by the
Bureau of Indian Affairs. T heir names have not been released.

Fordell H ill after a 12-mile car chase that involved several exchanges of

"T he federal investigation ruled the homicide was justified, and there are no charges filed against
Mr. Oxley," said Montezuma County Sheriff Steve Nowlin.

But an Internal Affairs investigation by the Sheriff's Office concluded that Oxley violated three
department polices during the chase that led to the shootout, according to documents obtained
by T he Journal.

Nowlin fired Oxley in September, citing the policy violations.

Nowlin accused Oxley of shooting at or from a moving vehicle, using unapproved ammunition
while on duty, and carrying unapproved ammunition.

Nowlin declined to provide T he Journal with the Internal Affairs report on the incident, saying it was
not public record under Colorado open records law. He also refused to comment about the case
until the Colorado Bureau of Investigation and 22nd Judicial District was finished with its
investigation.

T he Journal file

But Oxley contacted T he Journal and provided his termination letter, which outlined policy violations
from the Internal Affairs investigation that led to his dismissal.

During an interview Friday, Oxley rebutted accusations that he violated the Sheriff's Office policy
about shooting from a moving vehicle. He also discussed the dangerous situation that day and
provided details about the incident.

Oxley was not injured, but his patrol car was shot up. T he chase ended when the disabled vehicle
stopped just across the Utah border. County Road G was closed overnight while the shooting was
investigated.

T he entire incident lasted over 17 minutes.

'It was my duty to stop him'In the early the afternoon of Feb. 15, Oxley pulled over an older white
sedan with three occupants in the 12000 block of Montezuma County Road G for a traffic violation.
Oxley said the vehicle was missing a taillight and had indecipherable temporary plates.

T he driver had an ID card but no license, insurance or registration, Oxley said, and the other two
passengers, one of whom was Hill, had no identification. While checking the driver's ID in his patrol
car, the vehicle left the scene, did a U-turn and headed west.

Oxley said he radioed in that the suspects left the scene, and he followed them without lights or
sirens.

"My intention was to follow until they left the state, and that would be the end of it," he said, noting
that San Juan County Utah authorities had been notified.

But then Hill began hanging out the passenger-side window, looking back at him, Oxley said. He
heard gunshots and saw a silver handgun on the passenger side.

Believing that someone willing to shoot at an officer could also attack someone else, Oxley said he
fired back with his handgun in an attempt to disable the vehicle or suspect.

"He was trying to kill me, so what would stop him from shooting someone else or stealing another
vehicle?" Oxley said. "As a law enforcement officer, it was my duty to stop him and protect the
public."

T he two exchanged gunfire several times while driving west on County Road G.

At one point, Oxley shot through his patrol car windshield to get a better line of sight on the vehicle
and to help protect himself from gunfire. He grabbed his department-issued AR-15 rifle and
returned fire from a hole in the windshield. Oxley pulled over in the 4000 block of County Road G to
reload the assault weapon, then caught up with the suspects and continued to exchange gunfire.

"I believed that if I didn't stop them, they could hurt someone else, drive up a driveway to steal
another vehicle at gunpoint or ambush another cop down the road," he said.

Oxley said he fired about 50 rounds during the chase and final shootout a few hundred yards into
Utah.

T he Journal file

Oxley, who has 27 years of experience in law enforcement, said he shot at only the vehicle and
passenger side when fired upon, and said he never shot when residences or other vehicles were
nearby.

With one tire shot out, the vehicle came to a stop, and the driver came out with his hands up and
lay on the ground, Oxley said. But Hill exited the vehicle and continued to fire at Oxley, who took
cover behind his truck, he said.

"Some of the rounds were hitting close to me," Oxley said. "I was shooting back defending myself."

In the next exchange, Hill was hit and went down. T he other passenger had also exited the vehicle
and was lying on the ground. T hey were held at gunpoint until backup officers arrived. T he car had
rolled into the ditch and started a brush fire.

Federal investigation at a crossroadsT he chase and shootout occurred over a 12-mile stretch in a
jurisdictional patchwork of land in Montezuma County, Navajo Nation and San Juan County, Utah. It
was eventually determined the fatal shooting occurred on Navajo trust land, so the case was
turned over to the FBI.

On Aug. 31, the Utah U.S. attorney, John W. Huber, ruled the fatal use of force was justified in a
letter to the FBI investigator of the case but expressed concerns about Oxley's actions. Oxley
provided a copy of the letter to T he Journal.

T he U.S. attorney's office reviewed 14 computer discs of information related to the officer-
involved shooting and screened them for possible criminal charges against Oxley.

"I conclude the shooting of Fordell H ill
letter states. "Accordingly, I have declined the case against Sergeant Oxley for federal criminal
prosecution."

Fordell H ill was unquestionably justified under the circumstances," the

But in the letter, Huber also called the circumstances leading up to the use of deadly force by Oxley
"unusual and, in many respects, troubling."

"While some of Sergeant Oxley's actions during pursuit within Indian Country appear to have been
negligent, even reckless, his conduct does not present a provable violation of federal law," the
letter states.

'Poses a substantial risk'Before his termination, Oxley was put on administrative leave during the
investigation and was interviewed as part of an Internal Affairs investigation.

In a Sept. 17 termination letter to Oxley, Nowlin claims Oxley's actions were unsafe.

Nowlin states that according to the investigation, Oxley was 80 to 100 yards behind the vehicle and
drove to within two or three car lengths once shots were fired.

"T his decision by you put yourself in unnecessary danger and began further poor decisions and
actions by you that put innocent persons and the public in danger," Nowlin's letter states.

T he sheriff's internal investigation only focuses on the portion of the incident that occurred within
Montezuma County, and not the fatal shooting, which was investigated by the FBI because it
occurred on Indian Reservation land.

"Shooting at or from a moving vehicle are rarely effective, and poses a substantial risk to the public
and property," Nowlin states in the termination letter. He said officers in Utah were made aware of

the fleeing vehicle and were ready to intercept.

"T eam work brings successful conclusions in high risk situations such as this incident," Nowlin
states.

Oxley disputed the claim that he violated the policy of shooting from a moving vehicle but admitted
he violated the policy of possessing and using unauthorized ammunition while on duty.

"T hat was a mistake. I grabbed the wrong ammunition. It was a similar brand to department
issue," he said.

A question of interpretationIn an appeal of his termination, Oxley defends his actions as necessary
to protect the public from a suspect willing to fire upon an officer. His appeal was submitted in
cooperation with his lawyer, David Albrechta.

T he appeal argues that the sheriff misinterpreted its own policies, and that Oxley's behavior does
not warrant termination. Oxley was fired upon and returned fire using his assigned weapons, the
appeal states.

"Mr. Oxley decided that letting the suspects flee was a greater risk to public safety than the risk
caused by pursuing the suspects and defending himself on this sparsely populated country road,"
the appeal states.

It further states that no charges have been filed against the driver and other passenger from the
fleeing vehicle, that the portion of the incident that took place in Montezuma County was not
sufficiently investigated, and that Oxley did not have immediate access to a counselor after the
incident.

T he shooting from a moving vehicle policy violation states it is "rarely effective" which "admits (it)
may sometimes be effective," the appeal states. "(T he) policy itself is unclear and leaves the
decision up to the deputy. T he policy does not state that a deputy may not fire at or from a
moving vehicle. Instead it only states it may not always be effective."

According to the appeal, the policy allows a deputy to fire at or from a moving vehicle "if deadly
force other than the vehicle is directed at the deputy or others."

"In this instance, if Mr. Oxley had simply let the vehicle drive away, he would be neglecting his
responsibility as a deputy," the appeal states. "Pursuit was his only option."

T he pursuit meant that he had to continue taking fire, the appeal continues, and "the only means
available to avert the threat of fire was to return fire. His actions were completely within this policy,
and reasonable within the scenario."

In the termination letter, Nowlin concludes that Oxley could have avoided imminent threat by
backing off the chase.

"(Hill's) actions also posed that same threat to the public and property, but ceased firing when not

being so closely pursued by you," he states in the termination letter to Oxley. "Again, distance
between you and the suspect vehicle prevented gunfire."

Nowlin said there are certain circumstances when a deputy has no choice but to shoot from his
patrol car, but that this was not one of them.

Oxley stands by his actions, claiming that stopping the vehicle to prevent additional crimes against
the public was warranted.

"I did my job, put my life at risk protecting the public and was fired for it," he said. "I want the truth
to be known, and not hide anything."

T he 22nd Judicial District Attorney, Will Furse, said a shoot team is investigating the portion of the
incident that took place in Montezuma County, in cooperation with the Colorado Bureau of
Investigation.

He said the analysis will determine whether deadly force was necessary and whether charges
against the other two passengers in the suspect vehicle will be charged with criminal violations.

jmimiaga@the-journal.com

(c) 2018, The Durang o Herald, All Rights Reserved

 
Sheriff to investigate fatal McElmo Canyon - Journal, The (Cortez,
Dolores, Mancos, CO) - July 5, 2018
July 5, 2018 | Journal, The (Cortez, Dolores, Mancos, CO) | Jim Mimiaga

T he Montezuma County Sheriff's Office is still waiting on results of a federal investigation into an
officer-involved shootout in McElmo Canyon in February that left one man dead.

But Sheriff Steve Nowlin said he is becoming impatient and plans to conduct his own independent,
internal affairs investigation to determine if lethal force by Sgt. Ed Oxley was justified, even though
it happened outside the county.

"It has been too long, and I feel like to move forward, we need to conduct our own investigation
into the shooting," he said.

On Feb. 15, after Oxley pulled over a vehicle on Road G for an alleged traffic violation, Nowlin said.
He said the suspect sped off, and an occupant allegedly shot at Oxley as he pursued the car west
into Utah, just past the Ismay Trading Post.

T he car had blown a tire and continued driving on one rim until it came to a stop and an occupant
exited the vehicle surrendering with his hands up, according to Nowlin. T he car rolled backward into
the ditch and started a brush fire. Upon arrival, Oxley was allegedly fired upon, and he returned fire,
killing Fordell H ill

Fordell H ill, 27.

T wo unidentified people who were in the car with Hill were taken into custody by the Bureau of
Indian Affairs. T heir names have not been released.

Oxley was not injured, but his patrol car, where he took cover, was shot up, Nowlin said. County
Road G was closed overnight while the shooting was investigated.

T he shootout occurred in a jurisdictional patchwork of Navajo land and San Juan County, Utah land.
It was eventually determined the fatal shooting occurred on Navajo trust land, so the case was
turned over to the FBI.

Nowlin said he plans to convene a three-to-five-person review board of civilian and law
enforcement experts from outside the area to investigate the officer-involved shooting, and make
a recommendation on whether it was justified.

According to Montezuma County Sheriff's Office policy, Oxley has been on paid administrative
leave since the incident.

"Usually these get resolved within a few months, so it is frustrating," Nowlin said. "T he review
board will conduct a fact-finding mission of the action of the officer at the time."

He is also waiting on Utah's U.S. Attorney General's office to release a report on the matter so he
can conduct a proper criminal investigation on the portion of the incident that took place in
Montezuma County.

On T uesday, T he Journal emailed FBI spokeswoman Sandra Barker for an update on the status of
the federal investigation. "T here is no new information at this time," Barker said.

jmimiaga@the-journal.com

Copyrig ht 2018, The Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 
Colorado deputy fired for actions during deadly - Associated Press
State Wire: Colorado (CO) - November 1, 2018
November 1, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Colorado (CO)

DURANGO, Colo. (AP) — A Colorado deputy cleared of criminal wrongdoing in a deadly shootout
and chase that ended across the Utah border was terminated for violating department policy.

T he Durango Herald reports a federal prosecutor ruled in August that the shooting by Montezuma
County Sheriff's Sgt. Edward Oxley was justified, but Sheriff Steve Nowlin fired him in September
following an internal affairs investigation.

Oxley killed Fordell H ill
gunfire in February.

Fordell H ill after a 12-mile (19-kilometer) car chase that involved several exchanges of

Investigators found that Oxley violated department polices, including shooting at or from a moving
vehicle, and using and carrying unapproved ammunition.

Oxley filed an appeal of his termination, saying his actions were necessary to protect the public.

T he appeal argues the office misinterpreted its policies, and Oxley's actions do not warrant
termination.

___

Information from: Durango Herald, http://www.durangoherald.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Man killed in shootout with Colorado authorities - Associated Press
State Wire: Colorado (CO) - March 16, 2018
March 16, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Colorado (CO)

CORT EZ, Colo. (AP) — T he FBI and Montezuma County Sheriff's Office have identified the man
killed in a deadly shootout with a sergeant.

T he Journal reports that 27-year-old Fordell H ill
shootout.

Fordell H ill was killed in the Feb. 15 car chase turned

T he incident began as a sedan with three occupants was pulled over for a broken brake light. T he
sedan fled the scene and crossed the Utah border, during which someone in the vehicle fired shots
at pursuing authorities.

Sheriff Steve Nowlin says the sedan eventually came to a stop with a blown tire. But someone
inside continued to fire, so the sergeant fired back — killing Hill.

T he driver and other passenger were taken into custody by the Sheriff's Office and were turned
over to Navajo police.

___

Information from: Cortez Journal, http://www.cortezjournal.com/

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
ames of victim and Montezuma County deputy - Durango Herald, The
(CO) - March 15, 2018
March 15, 2018 | Durango Herald, The (CO) | Jim Mimiaga

T he names of the victim and Montezuma County deputy involved in a deadly shootout in McElmo
Canyon Feb. 15 have been released by the FBI and Sheriff's Office.

On Wednesday, FBI spokeswoman Sandra Barker identified the person killed as Fordell H ill
She did not say where he lived.

Fordell H ill, 27.

As part of standard procedure, Sgt. Ed Oxley was put on paid administrative leave pending an
investigation of the fatal shooting, said Sheriff Steve Nowlin.

T he incident began after Oxley pulled over an eastbound white sedan with three occupants on
County Road G for a broken brake light and no visible registration.

But while attempting to contact the driver, the suspect did a U-turn and sped westbound toward
Utah. While in pursuit, someone in the car fired shots at Oxley, according to Nowlin.

T he chase continued on County Road G for more than 10 miles and ended a few hundred yards
into Utah, just west of the old Ismay Trading Post. T he vehicle had blown a tire and was driving on
a bare wheel rim.

According to Nowlin, the driver parked the sedan broadside in the road, got out and raised his
hands to surrender. T he car rolled backward into a ditch and started a brush fire that sent out a
plume of smoke.

Nowlin said that an occupant of the vehicle continued to fire upon Oxley, who fired back, killing an
unidentified passenger.

T he driver and other passenger were taken into custody by the Sheriff's Office, and turned over to
Navajo police. T he deputy reportedly administered CPR to the injured suspect, who died at the
scene.

It was not reported how many shots were fired, but Nowlin said the patrol vehicle was shot up.

Paul Davis, who lives on County Road G near where the car crashed, said he saw officers in pursuit,
then a short time later heard five to six gunshots, a pause, then more gunshots.

T he incident closed McElmo Road in both directions for more than 8 hours while the fatal shooting
was investigated. A line of backed-up drivers were forced to turn around and find alternative
routes. Fire crews from San Juan County Utah arrived to fight the brush fire.

Working out which jurisdiction where the final shootout took place was difficult, Nowlin said. It was
determined that it occurred on Navajo trust land in Utah, and therefore was under the jurisdiction
of the FBI.

T he identities of the passengers have not been released by the FBI, Nowlin said.

"T hey haven't even released that information to us," he said.

Nowlin said they are waiting results of the FBI investigation so the Sheriff's Office can fully
investigate the portion of criminal action that occurred on the Montezuma County side of the
Utah-Colorado border.

"We are also still waiting to get our patrol vehicle back and the equipment in it," he said. "We're
down an officer while the investigation continues."

Nowlin said they are cooperating with the FBI.

It was the second fatal shooting involving a Montezuma County deputy in eight months. On July 4,
T yrone Orvy Peabody was killed by a deputy after he was fired upon responding to a family
disturbance and suspected DUI in Pleasant View.

"It goes to show the types of crimes we have to deal with are getting more violent and more
dangerous," Nowlin said. "We have stepped up training to appropriately handle these types of
situations."

jmimiaga@the-journal.com

(c) 2018, The Durang o Herald, All Rights Reserved

 

Colorado police say nephew stabbed uncle before - Associated Press
State Wire: Colorado (CO) - July 6, 2018
July 6, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Colorado (CO)

PUEBLO, Colo. (AP) — T he two men killed in a stabbing and subsequent shooting involving a
Colorado police officer have been identified.

Pueblo County Coroner Brian Cotter says 52-year-old David Bitsuie was the uncle of 32-year-old
Emmanuel B itsuie. T hey both died in the incident Wednesday.
Emmanuel B itsuie

T he Pueblo Chieftain reports that according to police, the first officer to arrive on scene
Emmanuel B itsuie, who apparently had stabbed his uncle.
encountered Emmanuel B itsuie

T he officer shot Emmanuel B itsuie

Emmanuel B itsuie, who died at the scene.

David Bitsuie was alive when officers arrived at the residence, and he was transported to a local
hospital, where he later died.

T he officer involved in the shooting was treated for a minor injury and was released at the hospital.

Further details about the incident were not made available T hursday, and the investigation
continues.

___

Information from: T he Pueblo Chieftain, http://www.chieftain.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
July 06--The two men killed Wednesday in a stabbing and subsequent shooting involving a Pueblo police officer

have been identified by Pueblo County Coroner Brian Cotter as David Bitsuie and Emmanuel Bitsuie. 

David Bitsuie, 52, was the uncle of Emmanuel Bitsuie, 32. 

The Pueblo Police Department was called to the 1200 block of East Abriendo just after 3:45 p.m. Wednesday on a

report of a family disturbance, but while they were en route, the call was changed to a stabbing. 

According to police, the first officer to arrive on scene encountered Emmanuel Bitsuie, who apparently had stabbed

his uncle. The officer used lethal force, shooting Emmanuel Bitsuie, who died at the scene. 

David Bitsuie was alive when officers arrived at the residence. He was transported to a local hospital, but later died

as a result of his injuries. 

The officer involved in the shooting was treated for a minor injury and was released at the hospital. 

Further details about the incident were not made available Thursday and the investigation is ongoing. 

The shooting is being investigated by the Tenth Judicial Critical Incident Team during which time the involved

officer will be on routine paid administrative leave, per police protocol. 

zhillstrom@gmail.com 

CREDIT: By Zach Hillstrom 
 
 


 
July 14--A 22-year-old man is in critical condition after being shot in the head early Friday morning in the 600 block

of Maryland Avenue in J.J. Raigoza Park on the South Side. 

Police responded to the scene on a report of a shooting and found the suspect, who police have identified but

whose name has not been released. 

The victim was still in critical condition at a local hospital as of Friday evening. 

No arrests have been made and detectives are investigating. 

Police are urging those with information about the shooting to submit a tip. 

To remain anonymous, contact Pueblo Crime Stoppers at 542STOP (542-7867) or go to pueblocrimestoppers. com.

If your information leads to a felony arrest, you could be eligible for a cash reward. 

Officer ID'd in July 4 shooting 

identified as Jordan Roberts. 

The officer who shot and killed a stabbing suspect in the 1200 block of East Abriendo Avenue on July 4 has been

Roberts has worked with the Pueblo Police Department since 2016. 

Roberts was the first officer on the scene of a family disturbance call on Independence Day when he encountered

Emmanuel Bitsuie, 32, who had reportedly stabbed his 52-year-old uncle, David Bitsuie. 

Emmanuel Bitsuie died at the scene, and David Bitsuie was transported to a local hospital, where he later died of

his injuries. 

The 10th Judicial Critical Incident Team is investigating the matter. 

Dog saved from structure fire 

The Pueblo Fire Department was called to a structure fire in the 2700 block of Lowell Avenue just before 1 p.m.

Friday and, thanks to a quick response, were able to save the home as well as a dog trapped inside. 

The resident of the home, an adult male, was not inside at the time of the fire and a dog that appeared to be of a pit

bull breed was rescued from the burning property without suffering significant injuries. 

Multiple units responded to the scene in the residential area. Pueblo Fire Department officials indicated the fire

appears to have been accidental and electrical in nature. 

Due to significant smoke and fire damage, the home was considered to be unlivable, but the structure was not

destroyed. 

Safe Streets seeking two 

The Southern Colorado Safe Streets Task Force is attempting to locate two wanted street criminals. 

Missy Fuentes, 30, is described as an Hispanic female, 5-feet tall, weighing 170 pounds with brown hair and brown

eyes. She has three no-bond warrants that include a parole violation, assault, dangerous drugs and flight/ escape. 

John Parsons, 25, is described as a white male, 5-feet-10-inches tall, weighing 166 pounds with brown hair and

brown eyes. 

amount is $10,750. 

Parsons has seven warrants for failure to appear that include the following charges: possession of a controlled

substance, six counts of owning a dangerous dog causing injury or death to animals, failing to report an accident,

two counts of violation of a protection order, careless driving and driving under the influence. His total bond

Anyone with information regarding these suspects is encouraged to contact Pueblo police. 

To remain anonymous, contact Pueblo Crime Stoppers at 542STOP (542-7867) or go to pueblocrimestoppers. com.

If your information leads to a felony arrest, you could be eligible for a cash reward. 

The Pueblo Police Department was called to the 1600 block of Moore Avenue at approximately 6 p.m. Thursday to

investigate a report of motor vehicle theft. 

The victim told police that her 2002 Ford Explorer, valued at $4,500, had been taken by a friend of hers without her

SUV Stolen 

Beulah Heights 

permission. 

Police are investigating. 

Arrests 

Andy Eugene Avalos, 33, of the 1300 block of Berkley Avenue, was arrested Thursday on suspicion of first-degree

aggravated motor vehicle theft. He was being held at jail without bail pending a court appearance. 

Mark Henry Beigert, 44, of Pueblo West, was arrested Thursday on a warrant for second-degree assault,

strangulation and stalking. He was being held at jail without bail pending a court appearance. 

Tony L. Estrada, 28, of Colorado Springs, was arrested Thursday on suspicion of unlawful possession of a

controlled substance. He was being held at jail without bail pending a court appearance. 

zhillstrom@chieftain. com Pueblo Crime Stoppers, 542-STOP. Remember, your call is anonymous. 

Fire stations; Fires; Independence Day; Criminal investigations; Stabbings; Injuries

Company / organization:

Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336111, 336390; Name: Crime Stoppers;

CREDIT: By Zach Hillstrom 
 
 

Pueblo DA: Officer justified in fatal shooting - Pueblo Chieftain, The
(CO) - February 14, 2019 - page A1
February 14, 2019 | Pueblo Chieftain, The (CO) | Ryan Severance The Pueblo Chieftain | Article | Page A1

T he 10th Judicial District Attorney’s Office has ruled that an officer was justified in shooting and
killing a man who stabbed his uncle last summer in the Bessemer area.

On July 4 around 3:45 p.m., officer Jordan Roberts of the Pueblo Police Department responded to
the backyard of a home on the 1200 block of East Abriendo Avenue on a report of a stabbing in
progress.

As Roberts arrived, he was guided by individuals at the scene to the location of two men identified
as Emmanuel B itsuie

Emmanuel B itsuie, 32, and his uncle David Bitsuie, 52.

According to the Critical Incident Team decision letter written by District Attorney Jeff Chostner, as
Roberts approached the men in the backyard of the East Abriendo home, he noticed that
Emmanuel Bitsuie was on top of David Bitsuie and had a shiny object in his hand.
Emmanuel B itsuie

Roberts noticed Emmanuel B itsuie
Bitsuie was being stabbed, Roberts fired his gun and shot Emmanuel B itsuie
after he reportedly refused to acknowledge Roberts’ commands for him to get on the ground.

Emmanuel Bitsuie move his arm in a downward motion and, knowing that David
Emmanuel Bitsuie three to four times

Emmanuel Bitsuie was pronounced dead at the scene, while David Bitsuie was taken to a local
Emmanuel B itsuie
hospital where he later died from his wounds.

“Based on the facts of the investigation conducted by CIT  investigators, the use of deadly force by
officer Jordan Roberts appears to be justified based on the fear and threat of serious bodily injury
or death posed to David Bitsuie by Emmanuel B itsuie
knife,” Chostner wrote in the decision letter. “T here is no evidence or facts collected to support any
criminal wrongdoing by officer Roberts during the incident... Given the facts and circumstances of
the situation and the governing law, criminal charges against officer Jordan Roberts would not be
appropriate, and therefore no criminal charges will be filed.”

Emmanuel Bitsuie as he repeatedly stabbed David with a

rseverance@chieftain.com

T witter: @RyanS_Chieftain

Copyrig ht, 2019, Pueblo Chieftain, The, All Rights Reserved.

 
Pueblo police say nephew stabbed uncle before - Pueblo Chieftain, The
(CO) - July 5, 2018
July 5, 2018 | Pueblo Chieftain, The (CO) | Zachary Hillstrom

T he two men killed Wednesday in a stabbing and subsequent shooting involving a Pueblo police
officer have been identified by Pueblo County Coroner Brian Cotter as David Bitsuie and
Emmanuel B itsuie.
Emmanuel B itsuie

David Bitsuie, 52, was the uncle of Emmanuel B itsuie

Emmanuel B itsuie, 32.

T he Pueblo Police Department was called to the 1200 block of East Abriendo just after 3:45 p.m.
Wednesday on a report of a family disturbance, but while they were en route, the call was changed
to a stabbing.

According to police, the first officer to arrive on scene encountered Emmanuel B itsuie
apparently had stabbed his uncle.

Emmanuel B itsuie, who

T he officer used lethal force, shooting Emmanuel B itsuie

Emmanuel B itsuie, who died at the scene.

David Bitsuie was alive when officers arrived at the residence. He was transported to a local
hospital, but later died as a result of his injuries.

T he officer involved in the shooting was treated for a minor injury and was released at the hospital.

Further details about the incident were not made available Thursday and the investigation is
ongoing.

T he shooting is being investigated by the Tenth Judicial Critical Incident Team during which time the
involved officer will be on routine paid administrative leave, per police protocol.

zhillstrom@gmail.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, Pueblo Chieftain, The, All Rights Reserved.

 

Officers justified in fatal shooting of veteran - Tulsa World (OK) - June 12,
2018
June 12, 2018 | Tulsa World (OK) | From Staff Reports

A district attorney has determined that two Owasso police officers were justified when they fatally
shot a man who allegedly approached them with two firearms in March.

Duane Preciado , 39, was shot and killed by the officers on the night of March 21 after he
Duane Preciado
reportedly approached them and refused commands to drop his weapons.

Matthew Ballard, district attorney for Craig, Mayes and Rogers counties, wrote in an April report
that Officers Casey Lawson and Laura Lehner of the Owasso Police Department "were compelled
by Mr. Preciado's actions to respond with deadly force."

Ballard noted that the officers attempted to defuse the situation and "even retreated and
attempted to wait for backup."

"Given the circumstances, the officers displayed admirable patience and bravery," Ballard wrote.

T he Owasso Police Department was called shortly before 10:30 that night to a residence in the
area of 108th Place North between 151st East and 154th East avenues in the Lake Valley addition
about a welfare check.

According to Ballard's report, Preciado was a "depressed veteran" who was suicidal at the time.

Upon arriving at the residence, the officers rang the doorbell and knocked, at which point Preciado
became "irate," allegedly screaming at them to get out of his house and threatening to shoot
them. T he officers had not entered the residence, Ballard wrote.

T he officers eventually retreated behind a white pickup in a neighbor's driveway. As they did so,
Preciado allegedly continued to threaten them. While behind the vehicle, both officers reported
hearing the sound of a rifle or shotgun round being racked, according to the report.

Body camera footage reportedly showed that the officers stayed behind the vehicle for more than
four minutes, at which point Preciado allegedly exited the home with two firearms, later revealed to
be a semi-automatic pistol and an AK-47 rifle, screaming profanities.

He reportedly continued to threaten the officers. At one point, he allegedly said he was "unstable,"
according to Ballard's report.

As Preciado approached the truck, he allegedly twice yelled "kill me." T he officers reportedly
commanded him to drop his weapons at least nine times before firing upon him.

T hree rounds in total were fired. Preciado was taken to St. John Medical Center in T ulsa, where he
was pronounced dead.

"T he officers were justified in their belief that the immediate use of deadly force was necessary to
prevent serious bodily injury to themselves," Ballard wrote.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Tulsa World. World Publishing  Co.

 

Owasso police release video of deadly encounter - Tulsa World (OK) -
April 2, 2018
April 2, 2018 | Tulsa World (OK) | Staff Writer Kyle Hinchey

T he Owasso Police Department has released the names of two officers who shot and killed a
reported military veteran who pointed a loaded AK-47 and a handgun at them in addition to lapel-
cam footage of the deadly encounter.

Officers Casey Lawson and Laura Lehner responded to reports of a man, identified as 39-year-old
Duane Preciado
Duane Preciado , threatening suicide at a residence on 108th Place North in the Lake Valley
Addition on the night of March 21.

When they arrived, the officers made contact with Preciado, who they were told was a veteran of
the war in Afghanistan, at the front door of the home.

Preciado threatened to shoot the two within seconds of Lawson and Lehner identifying themselves
as officers, according to a statement from Owasso Police Chief Scott Chambless. One of the
officers reportedly saw the man carrying what he believed to be a rifle or shotgun, prompting them
to retreat and take cover behind a vehicle in a neighboring driveway.

As they moved away from the house, the officers heard what sounded like a bullet being
chambered into a gun, Chambless said in the statement.

Lawson and Lehner waited for backup as they discussed "their options to handle the situation
safely." Preciado allegedly continued yelling at the officers that he was going to start shooting and
kill them.

T he suspect eventually exited the home and began walking toward the officers' patrol vehicles
while holding a loaded AK-47 rifle and a loaded handgun while yelling, "Kill me, kill me," Chambless
said.

Officers reportedly yelled at the man to drop the guns, to which he responded by shouting, "F- —
you."

Preciado turned toward the officers and raised both guns in their direction, which resulted in
Lawson and Lehner opening fire, according to Chambless. T he confrontation lasted less than five
minutes.

Chambless said officers are able to de-escalate a situation or use non-lethal force in the majority
of incidents but that Preciado gave them "no choice but to defend their lives and the lives of
innocent citizens in the neighborhood."

"Mr. Preciado spent many years in defense of our country," Chambless said. "His life should be

honored for this service and not tarnished by the choices he made on this one day."

Footage from Lehner's lapel cam shows her and her partner standing on Preciado's porch and
trying to communicate with him through the closed door. Near the beginning of the video,
Preciado can be heard demanding the officers to get out of his house before he shoots them.

Lehner tells him not to threaten them and says they're not there to hurt him, while also informing
him that they're not in his house. T he officers back up as the threats continue.

"All righty then," Lehner can be heard saying to her partner. "Let's f---ing play this game."

When an officer sees a gun through a door window, the officers retreat to a nearby car. Shortly
later, both officers repeatedly tell the man to drop the gun before firing multiple shots at him. T he
actual shooting cannot be seen because it's dark outside, but a moaning Preciado comes into view
when the officers approach him as he's lying in the front yard.

Lehner tells him to roll over, to which he continues to respond with, "F- — you." She then kicks a
pistol away from him while Lawson places him in handcuffs.

"Dude, we did not want to do that," Lawson can be heard telling him.

T oward the end of the video, Lehner can be heard saying she believed she fired her gun twice, while
Lawson says he thought he fired once.

Rogers County District Attorney Matt Ballard said in a statement that his office has not requested
any further information and is satified the investigation is complete after reviewing evidence
collected by the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation.

Ballard said he will announce his formal findings when the final report is complete, which he believes
will be soon.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Tulsa World. World Publishing  Co.

 
Police shoot and kill two men in separate - Oklahoman, The (Oklahoma
City, OK) - March 23, 2018
March 23, 2018 | Oklahoman, The (Oklahoma City, OK) | From Staff Reports

T wo men were killed Wednesday in separate police shootings, according the Oklahoma State
Bureau of Investigation.

About 10:30 p.m. Wednesday, Owasso police responded to a check welfare call at a home in the
15000 block of E 108 Street. At the scene, two officers encountered Duane Preciado
Duane Preciado , 39, who
reportedly came out of the home with an assault-style rifle, according to a news release.

T he officers commanded Preciado several times to drop the rifle before he began coming towards
them and making “threatening comments.” Both officers opened fire on Preciado, who was taken
to a Tulsa hospital, where he later died.

OSBI agents were called out to assist the Owasso Police Department in the investigation and will
report their findings to the Tulsa County district attorney's office, who will determine if the
shooting was justified.

About eight hours before the encounter in Owasso, Mannford police responded to a neighborhood
after a woman called about a suspicious man. At the scene, two officers encountered Mark Allen
Lunn, 47, who they said began taking his clothes off after ignoring their orders.

After pulling off his shirt, Lunn pulled out a large knife from his pants and turned toward the
officers, police said. T he officers commanded him to drop the weapon, but Lunn reportedly
refused and continued toward the officers.

Both officers fired at Lunn, who died at the scene. OSBI agents are assisting the Mannford Police
Department with the investigation and a report will be submitted to the Creek County district
attorney's office, who will determine whether the shooting was justified.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Oklahoma Publishing  Company

 
Oklahoma DA says officers justified in death of - Associated Press State
Wire: Oklahoma (OK) - June 13, 2018
June 13, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Oklahoma (OK)

OWASSO, Okla. (AP) — An Oklahoma prosecutor says police officers in a Tulsa suburb were
justified when they fatally shot a man who authorities say threatened them with an AK-47 assault
rifle.

Authorities say 39-year-old Duane Preciado
carried the rifle as he met Owasso Officers Casey Lawson and Laura Lehner while they responded
to requests for a welfare check. Authorities said Preciado was shot as he moved toward the
officers while making threatening comments.

Duane Preciado  was shot and killed March 21 in Owasso. Preciado

Matthew Ballard, district attorney for Craig, Mayes and Rogers counties, says in a report that
Preciado was a "depressed veteran" who yelled "Kill me!" before the officers shot him three times.

Ballard says officers tried to defuse the situation but "were compelled by Mr. Preciado's actions to
respond with deadly force."

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
2 men killed by police in separate Oklahoma - Associated Press State
Wire: Oklahoma (OK) - March 22, 2018
March 22, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Oklahoma (OK)

OWASSO, Okla. (AP) — T he Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation is looking into the fatal
shooting of two men by police in separate northeastern Oklahoma cities.

T he OSBI says 39-year-old Duane Preciado
suburb of Owasso.

Duane Preciado  died after being shot Wednesday night in the T ulsa

T he OSBI says Preciado carried an AK-47 as he met two officers responding to a disturbance call
about 10:30 p.m., and was shot as he moved toward officers while making threatening comments.

About eight hours earlier in Mannford, about 20 miles (32 kilometers) west of T ulsa, 47-year-old
Mark Allen Lunn was shot by officers investigating a report of a suspicious man in a neighborhood.

T he OSBI says Lunn was walking away from officers when he pulled a knife from his pants and was
shot when he moved toward the officers.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
DA requesting ‘no further information’ in - Claremore Daily Progress,
The (OK) - April 2, 2018
April 2, 2018 | Claremore Daily Progress, The (OK) | Staff Writer

No further information is being sought in the ongoing investigation of a shooting in Owasso
involving police officers which led to the death of an Afghanistan war veteran.

In a statement from Rogers County District Attorney Matt Ballard, ""T he Oklahoma State Bureau
of Investigation has conducted a thorough investigation and presented the evidence collected and
further briefed my staff, including my chief criminal prosecutor, first assistant, chief investigator,
and myself. After reviewing the evidence provided, we have not requested any further information
and are satisfied that the investigation is complete, pending compilation of the final report. I will
announce my formal finding(s) when the final report is complete, which I understand will be very
soon."

According to reports filed by Owasso Police, On Wednesday, March 21, Owasso Police officers
Casey Lawson and Laura Lehner responded to an address on East 108 Place North in Owasso in
reference to a concern that a man identified as Duane Preciado
threatening suicide.

Duane Preciado  was at that address and was

Officers were told by dispatch that Preciado was an Afghanistan war veteran, and when they
arrived, they made contact with Preciado at the front door of the residence, the report indicated.

Officers identified themselves as Owasso Police officers and in less than one minute of making
contact, Preciado threatened to shoot them, according to police reports.

One of the officers saw what he believed to be a rifle or shotgun in the hands of Preciado, and
officers then retreated to a position of cover behind a vehicle in a neighboring driveway. While in
the process of moving away from the house, officers reported they heard what was believed to be
a bullet being chambered into a gun.

While the officers were behind cover, they called for backup and began discussing their options to
handle the situation safely.

While still behind cover, officers could hear (Preciado) yelling at them, indicating he was "going to
start shooting" and that he was "going to kill them," reports indicate.

At some point, Preciado exited the house and began walking towards the officers' patrol vehicles,
holding a loaded AK-47 rifle and a loaded Glock handgun, according to reports.

Preciado yelled at the officers, "Kill me, kill me, at which point, he was almost to the street. Officers
yelled multiple commands at Preciado, ordering him to drop the guns. Preciado responded with
obscenities, and turned towards the officers and raised the handgun in their direction, according to

police reports.

T he rifle was also being pointed towards the officers. Both officers fired their handguns at the
same time, which resulted in Preciado's death.

From the time the officers made contact with Preciado at the front door to the time the officers
fired in defense of their lives, less than five minutes had passed, according to reports.

In a statement issued by Owasso Police Chief Scott Chambless, the staff of the Owasso Police
Department is saddened by the necessity to take a life.

"In the vast majority of incidents, officers are able to de-escalate a situation or use lesser means
of force to resolve an issue," Chief Chambless said. "In this instance, Preciado gave the officers no
choice but to defend their lives and the lives of innocent citizens in the neighborhood. After
Preciado threatened to shoot the officers, they retreated to safety. Preciado left his home armed
with two loaded firearms while stating his intent to kill the officers. Preciado refused to drop the
guns and instead pointed the guns at the officers, forcing them to shoot.

"Mr. Preciado spent many years in defense of our country," Chief Chambless continued. "His life
should be honored for this service and not tarnished by the choices he made on this one day. T he
Owasso Police Department wants to extend its gratitude to the citizens of Owasso for their show
of support for our officers and the empathy expressed for the Preciado family."

Copyrig ht 2018, The Claremore Daily Progress / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 
Owasso shooting deemed justified - Oklahoman, The (Oklahoma City,
OK) - June 14, 2018
June 14, 2018 | Oklahoman, The (Oklahoma City, OK) | From Staff Reports

OWASSO — A district attorney has determined that two Owasso police officers were justified when
they fatally shot a man who allegedly approached them with two firearms in March.

Duane Preciado , 39, was shot and killed by the officers on the night of March 21 after he
Duane Preciado
reportedly approached them and refused commands to drop his weapons.

Matthew Ballard, district attorney for Craig, Mayes and Rogers counties, wrote in an April report
that officers Casey Lawson and Laura Lehner of the Owasso Police Department "were compelled
by Mr. Preciado's actions to respond with deadly force."

Ballard noted that the officers attempted to defuse the situation and "even retreated and
attempted to wait for backup."

"Given the circumstances, the officers displayed admirable patience and bravery," Ballard wrote.

T he Owasso Police Department was called shortly before 10:30 that night to a residence in the
area of 108th Place North between 151st East and 154th East avenues in the Lake Valley addition
about a welfare check.

According to Ballard's report, Preciado was a "depressed veteran" who was suicidal at the time.

Upon arriving at the residence, the officers rang the doorbell and knocked, at which point Preciado
became "irate," allegedly screaming at them to get out of his house and threatening to shoot
them. T he officers had not entered the residence, Ballard wrote.

T he officers eventually retreated behind a white pickup in a neighbor's driveway. As they did so,
Preciado allegedly continue to threaten them. While behind the vehicle, both officers reported
hearing the sound of a rifle or shotgun round being racked, according to the report.

Body camera footage reportedly showed that the officers stayed behind the vehicle for more than
four minutes, at which point Preciado allegedly exited the home with two firearms, later revealed to
be a semi-automatic pistol and an AK-47 rifle, screaming profanities.

He reportedly continued to threaten the officers. At one point, he allegedly said he was "unstable,"
according to Ballard's report.

As Preciado approached the pickup, he allegedly twice yelled "kill me." T he officers reportedly
commanded him to drop his weapons at least nine times before firing upon him.

T hree rounds in total were fired. Preciado was taken to St. John Medical Center in T ulsa, where he
was pronounced dead.

"T he officers were justified in their belief that the immediate use of deadly force was necessary to
prevent serious bodily injury to themselves," Ballard wrote.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Oklahoma Publishing  Company

 

Man fatally shot by park ranger in Canyon de - Navajo Times (Window
Rock, AZ) - October 9, 2018
October 9, 2018 | Navajo Times (Window Rock, AZ) | Cindy Yurth

CHINLE

A Chinle man was shot to death by a National Park Service ranger on the White House T rail in
Canyon de Chelly Friday afternoon, an NPS spokeswoman confirmed T uesday.

Family members of the deceased identified him as Venson Kee Yazzie
T homas and Raymond Yazzie.

Venson Kee Yazzie, 44, a son of Louise

T he Park Service was not releasing details of the incident as of Tuesday morning.

"A lot of the information is still kind of developing right now," said Vanessa Lacayo of the Park
Service's Intermountain Regional Communications Office in Colorado.

Lacayo said the NPS will not release the ranger's name until after the investigation is complete.

She said the case has been turned over to the FBI for investigation.

An FBI spokesman in Albuquerque said Monday he did not have confirmed details on the case to
share with media.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Navajo Times.

 
FBI: Arizona man fatally shot by ranger was armed - Associated Press
State Wire: Arizona (AZ) - October 10, 2018
October 10, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Arizona (AZ)

CHINLE, Ariz. (AP) — T he FBI says an Arizona man was armed with a knife when he was fatally
shot by a National Park Service ranger at a national monument.

Authorities say 43-year-old Venson Yazzie
Chelly in Chinle.

Venson Yazzie was killed in an area overlooking ruins at Canyon de

It's still unclear what led to the shooting Friday afternoon.

T he FBI said Wednesday it is investigating an assault on a federal officer but won't elaborate.

Park Service spokeswoman Vanessa Lacayo says the ranger is on paid administrative leave and
won't be identified unless he's found guilty of a crime.

A local tour guide, Adam T eller, says Yazzie was a vendor who sold rock art to tourists at the
monument.

Canyon de Chelly, on the Navajo Nation, has thousands of ruins, carvings and paintings on stone.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
FBI investigates shooting at national monument in - Associated Press
State Wire: Arizona (AZ) - October 10, 2018
October 10, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Arizona (AZ)

CHINLE, Ariz. (AP) — T he FBI is investigating a shooting that left a man dead at a national
monument in northeastern Arizona.

Venson
T he National Park Service says a ranger at Canyon de Chelly (dih-SHAY') shot 43-year-old Venson
Yazzie, of Chinle, on Friday afternoon.
Yazzie

It's unclear how it happened.

Park Service spokeswoman Vanessa Lacayo referred questions to the FBI. T he agency did not
immediately provide more details T uesday.

Lacayo says the Park Service will not identify the ranger unless he is found guilty of a crime. He is
on paid administrative leave.

Lacayo says the shooting happened in an area overlooking the White House ruins named for a
whitewashed cliff.

Canyon de Chelly near Chinle on the Navajo Nation has thousands of ruins, carvings and paintings
on stone. Some Navajos still live within the monument.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
Pointing to a shooting at Arizona’s Canyon de Chelly that left a Navajo man dead, a county commissioner in

southern Utah has escalated the harsh rhetoric over Bears Ears, alleging that “national monuments kill people.” 

An FBI investigation into the Oct. 5 shooting by a National Park Service (NPS) ranger remains open and few details

are publicly available, but San Juan County Commissioner Rebecca Benally is leveraging the death of Venson Kee

Yazzie to advance her case that Bears Ears National Monument is bad for American Indians, even though the 2016

designation came at the request of five tribes with cultural ties to these lands in southeastern Utah. 

Yazzie, of Chinle, Ariz., was an “innocent” 43-year-old rock art vendor trying to make a living on tribal land when he

was gunned down, Benally said at last week’s meeting of the Utah Legislature’s Commission for the Stewardship

of Public Lands. 

Democratic primary. 

“All he wanted to do was sell art at the edge of the canyon so he could provide for his family,” said Benally, a

Navajo who will be stepping down as a county commissioner after losing to a pro-monument rival in the

Benally made another explosive, yet unsubstantiated, assertion before lawmakers at the Oct. 18 meeting: Native

Americans have not been allowed to hunt deer this season, which opened Saturday and runs through Oct. 28, on

lands they have traditionally hunted because of the Bears Ears monument designation. 

Reached by cellphone Wednesday, she declined to elaborate. 

Benally leveled these allegations during a legislative discussion of the Interior Department’s draft management

plan for the Bear Ears monument, which President Donald Trump drastically reduced to about 200,000 acres last

year. While lawmakers accepted her claims, her political foes seized on them as proof she is out of touch with her

fellow Navajos. 

leadership anymore.” 

“Every time we hear about her she is trashing the monument or saying something stupid,” said Mark Maryboy, a

retired Navajo politician and pro-monument activist. “I think she is upset that the community doesn’t value her

Canyon de Chelly National Monument is on the Arizona side of the Navajo Nation and is managed by the National

Park Service and the tribe. By contrast, Bears Ears is administered by the Bureau of Land Management and U.S.

Forest Service in coordination with the tribes that proposed the monument. 

An NPS spokeswoman could not comment on the details of the shooting while it remains under investigation

except to say that Yazzie attacked the ranger while armed with a knife on the White House Trail. The officer is on

administrative leave pending the FBI review. 

“That’s the last thing anyone wants to do when they go to work that day,” said Vanessa Lacayo. “Our rangers go

through countless hours of training to make sure they are protecting our parks and visitors in the safest manner

possible.” 

Benally is the most outspoken and high-profile Navajo critic of Bears Ears. When Utah politicians and Trump

administration officials cite anti-monument sentiment among “local” American Indians, they almost always point

to Benally while ignoring numerous elected officials in Navajo government who support the monument. She

argues environmentalists are “romanticizing” American Indian spirituality to sell a monument designation that she

believes won’t protect these lands. 

“How we preserve and protect our best-kept secrets of sacred areas is to not designate them as national

monuments, because that puts it on the map and brings thousands and thousands of people that have no respect

for local people," Benally told lawmakers. “We have a grandma who is an herbalist who used to collect herbs on the

north side of Bears Ears Buttes. Those plants are being trampled just because someone wants to see it. They want

to hike and camp overnight on top of the buttes.” 

The Navajo and four other tribes successfully lobbied the Obama administration to designate Bears Ears under the

Antiquities Act. The tribes and several environmental groups are now suing to overturn Trump’s order and restore

the monument to its original 1.35 million acre boundaries. 

Benally’s re-election bid was thwarted this year by Maryboy’s brother Kenneth Maryboy, also a monument

supporter and former county commissioner. 

At last week’s public lands commission meeting, lawmakers also accepted without skepticism Benally’s assertion

that the U.S. Forest Service have infringed on American Indians' hunting access, citing concerns raised by a

constituent. 

“They went to the place where they always hunted, but they couldn’t go there anymore. This affects food they

could have provided for themselves,” Benally said. “It was because of the monument.” 

She insisted the Forest Service “reassigned” Navajo hunters to another area, where there are few signs of deer

because of southeast Utah’s severe drought. 

complaints by Navajo hunters. 

Mark Maryboy, a rancher who was once named Utah’s hunting educator of the year, said he has heard no such

“She is being totally ignorant about this whole issue. I don’t think she has taken time to read the proposal put in

place by the tribes,” Maryboy said. “She will find co-management in there. She will see traditional uses will

continue.” 

One anti-monument activist, however, believes Benally has a valid point —even if federal land managers have little

say over hunting on public lands in and around Bears Ears. 

“The realities are in monuments it becomes more difficult to obtain guiding permits, and it becomes more

restrictive. It just becomes cumbersome with the additional layers of bureaucracy. That’s the problem with

government overreach,” said Don Peay, founder of Sportsmen for Fish and Wildlife. “Right after the Grand

Staircase was established [as a national monument in 1996] I was there [hunting] when park rangers came in and

Peay’s and other hunting groups have filed papers seeking to intervene in the Bears Ears lawsuit on the side of the

Interior Department. The groups argue that monument status infringes on the state’s ability to properly manage

“It’s hard to do habitat improvements and do transplants,” Peay said. “It’s a lot more expensive. When it’s our

money they are spending, it matters. It’s our private sportsmen’s dollars. There is no public money that goes into

Peay’s concerns mirror elected Utah leaders’ assertions that Antiquities Act designations diminish hunting

opportunities, but the Bear Ears proclamation signed by Obama explicitly reserves authority over wildlife to the

At the public lands meeting, Benally incorrectly stated the Forest Service issues hunting permits to American

Indians, a task that is actually overseen by the state Division of Wildlife Resources (DWR). The Forest Service has

no role in managing hunting, according to a spokeswoman for the Manti-La Sal National Forest, which administers

public lands around Bears Ears Buttes. 

This past summer, DWR sold 250 permits to residents of the Utah portion of the Navajo Nation, according to

regional outreach director Morgan Jacobson. These special tags allow holders to hunt anywhere outside limited-

read us the riot act.” 

wildlife and hunters’ access. 

transplanting these animals.” 

state. 

entry units in DWR’s entire southeast region, so it is doubtful that Navajo hunters were directed to hunt certain

places. Tags awarded to non-American Indian hunters, by contrast, do assign them to specific hunting units. 

Inside the Bears Ears monument are portions of limited-entry units that are not open to general-season tag

holders. But DWR established those units decades before Obama designated the monument. 

Credit: By Brian Maffly 
 
 


Video shows police shooting man as he steps off - Deseret News, The
(Salt Lake City, UT) - May 3, 2018
May 3, 2018 | Deseret News, The (Salt Lake City, UT) | Pat Reavy Deseret News

By Pat Reavy

Deseret News

SALT  LAKE CIT Y - Police body camera video released Wednesday shows Salt Lake police shooting
and killing a suicidal man following repeated commands to put his weapons down and to sit down.

T he single video was recorded by a member of the Salt Lake City SWAT  team during a standoff
with Delorean Pikyavit

Delorean Pikyavit , 32, on the front porch of 1132 E. Princeton Ave. (1155 South) on April 18.

Officers were originally called to the area on a report of a domestic violence situation in which
weapons were involved.

Pikyavit's girlfriend went to a neighbor's house to call 911. She reported that he was breaking
windows, had punched her and was holding half of a pair of scissors to his throat.

"I said, 'What is wrong with you?' And he said, 'Do you want to see somebody die?' " the girlfriend
tells the dispatcher in a recording of the 911 call also released Wednesday. "He punched me over
and over and over."

When officers arrived at the scene, they noticed Pikyavit, who had followed his girlfriend next door,
on the sidewalk, said Salt Lake Police Capt. Lance VanDongen, the commander over SWAT . As they
approached Pikyavit, he ran back into the house.

Officers could see he was holding two weapons - a knife and half a pair of scissors, VanDongen
said.

Officers then learned that Pikyavit had recently walked away from a halfway house and had a
felony warrant out for his arrest for child endangerment, the captain said. T he man's criminal
history included several alcohol and drug-related convictions.

A negotiator was called to the scene to try and talk Pikyavit into surrendering peacefully. But
Pikyavit made comments about "going out with a bang," VanDongen said.

About 30 minutes after the negotiator was called, police called out their SWAT  team.

Approximately 30 minutes later, officers smelled gas coming from the house and Pikyavit "alluded
to igniting a lighter," VanDongen said. T he SWAT  team then had the gas to the house turned off.

"At (1:47 p.m.), Pikyavit says he is not going back to jail and that he is going to die today," the
captain said.

T hree minutes later, Pikyavit came out of the house holding a knife in one hand and the half a pair
of scissors in the other saying, "Shoot me," according to police.

"Do me a favor and sit down. Will you sit down for me?" an officer is heard in the video yelling at
Pikyavit. "It's not a time to play games right now."

Over the next 90 seconds, VanDongen said, Pikyavit was told nine times to sit down and 11 times
to drop his weapons.

Pikyavit is seen in the video swinging his arms as he teeters back and forth on the bottom step of
the porch. An officer can be heard in the background telling another to be quiet, apparently so as
not to have two officers yelling commands at the same time.

When Pikyavit takes a step down off the porch, two officers - from several feet away - fire
simultaneously. One officer fired from a .223-caliber rifle, and the other a 40 mm "less than lethal"
round, which is essentially a large rubber bullet, according to police.

Pikyavit later died from his injuries at a local hospital. Inside the house, investigators found a note
"in which the suspect identified himself as a criminal and alluded to killing police," VanDongen said.

He emphasized Wednesday how dangerous domestic violence calls can be for all parties involved,
including police.

"Domestic violence calls are highly unpredictable and considered high-hazard calls," VanDongen
said.

T here have been 18 domestic violence-related calls involving a weapon for Salt Lake police in 2018.
T he shooting was the city's first officer-involved critical incident of the year.

T he officer-involved shooting investigation being conducted by West Valley police is still open and
active. Salt Lake police did not take questions Wednesday while showing the video, instead sticking
to a prepared script. T he video was released per Salt Lake City Mayor Jackie Biskupski's policy
announced in October that all body-camera video from critical incidents be released to the public
within 10 days barring any "unusual or unforeseen circumstances."

One officer remained on paid administrative leave Wednesday pending the outcome of the
investigation.

Email: preavy@deseretnews.com

T witter: DNewsCrimeT eam

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Deseret News Publishing  Company

 
Man shot, killed by Salt Lake police - Deseret News, The (Salt Lake City,
UT) - April 19, 2018
April 19, 2018 | Deseret News, The (Salt Lake City, UT) | Pat Reavy Deseret News

By Pat Reavy

Deseret News

SALT  LAKE CIT Y - A man died Wednesday after being shot by Salt Lake City police who were
originally responding to a report of domestic violence and a possible hostage situation.

Delorean Pikyavit
Delorean Pikyavit , 32, died from his injuries, police confirmed Wednesday evening. It is the fourth
officer-involved shooting in Utah this month.

About 12:15 p.m. police were called to 1132 E. Princeton Ave. (1155 South). T he original call was for
a domestic violence incident, said Salt Lake Police Sgt. Brandon Shearer. He did not know who
made the call.

When police arrived they approached the suspect in the domestic violence call, later identified as
Pikyavit, prompting him to run back into the house, Shearer said. Not knowing whether there was a
hostage inside, a SWAT  team and hostage negotiators were called to the scene, Shearer said.

"After over an hour of trying to talk to the man, he came out of the home and approached the
officers. His actions caused the officers to respond, at which time the suspect was shot," he said.

Police did not release information Wednesday about what Pikyavit did to prompt police to shoot or
whether he was armed.

Shearer said less lethal force was also attempted, but he did not have further details. He did not
know how many officers fired their weapons or how many shots were fired. All of that information,
Shearer said, will be part of the officer-involved critical incident investigation, which is being headed
up by West Valley police.

Police originally described Pikyavit as "suicidal," saying he was barricaded inside the home.

A woman was also found injured at the house. Police later confirmed she was not inside the home
when Pikyavit re-entered. No details about how she was injured or the extent of her injuries were
released Wednesday.

It was unclear Wednesday whether Pikyavit lived at that house.

During the standoff, police ordered other residents in the neighborhood to shelter in place,
meaning they were to lock their doors and not go outside.

Kaytee Lucherini, who lives nearby, said she saw seven men with guns enter the home and was
trying to wrap her head around what had happened in her neighborhood.

"It's sad that it escalated to that," she said.

A search of state court records shows Pikyavit has three prior DUI convictions, one in Iron County
in 2009 and two in Washington County in 2012 and in 2011. He also pleaded guilty to driving on a
denied license in the 2011 case. He had also been convicted of misdemeanors for interference with
an arresting officer, drug possession and underage drinking.

Pikyavit's death marks the fourth officer-involved shooting in Utah in April.

* Lonnie Marcel Bowen, 41, was shot and killed Tuesday by a Unified police officer following a car
chase and a possible hostage incident inside his truck.

* Wade Leon Willis, 38, of Springville, was in critical condition from being shot on April 9 after
allegedly hitting a Utah County Sheriff's deputy with his car.

* Elijah James Smith, 20, was shot and killed April 8 by West Valley police after barging into a house
with three children inside, and then failing to obey officers' command to take his hands of his
pocket. When he eventually did, he took out his hand in a "rapid draw-stroke motion," police said.

Contributing: Annie Knox, Andrew Adams

Email: preavy@deseretnews.com

T witter: DNewsCrimeT eam

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Deseret News Publishing  Company

 
Salt Lake City police fatally shoot man in Sugar - Salt Lake Tribune, The
(UT) - April 18, 2018
April 18, 2018 | Salt Lake Tribune, The (UT)

A man was shot and killed by police outside a home in Sugar House after officers responded to a
reported domestic violence situation there Wednesday afternoon.

Police were called to the home — near 1100 East and Princeton Avenue (about 1200 South) —
about 12:20 p.m., Salt Lake City Sgt. Brandon Shearer said.

When officers arrived at the home, they tried to talk to the man, later identified as 32-year-old
Delorean Pikyavit
Delorean Pikyavit , who then went inside the house. T hat prompted police to switch tactics and
treat the situation as if they were dealing with a barricaded person and a hostage.

For the next hour, police attempted to talk to Pikyavit, and he came outside eventually, Shearer
said.

It's unclear what happened next, but officers shot Pikyavit about 2 p.m.

"He came out of the home and approached officers. His actions caused the officers to respond, at
which time the suspect was shot," Shearer said.

When asked about the man's "actions," Shearer said Salt Lake City police hadn't spoken to the
officers involved, as per the protocol requiring that a separate agency investigate police shootings.

Officers also used "less lethal tools" on Pikyavit, Shearer said, not elaborating on the weapons
used.

Pikyavit, in "extremely critical condition," was taken to a hospital, where he died later, Shearer said.

T he sergeant said he didn't know whether Pikyavit had a weapon when he was shot. Shearer also
said he did not know the relationship between the alleged domestic violence victim and the man.
He said that the woman involved in the report was never taken into the home, and that there
wasn't a hostage situation.

T he woman has since spoken to detectives, but Shearer didn't know what she said.

As police cordoned off the area and a tactical crew went to the scene with the man reportedly
barricaded in the house, officials told nearby residents to stay in their homes. Police also
announced via T witter that the man was suicidal.

T he order for residents was lifted about 2:15 p.m.

When asked later whether police still believed Pikyavit was suicidal, Shearer said he knew officers
had spoken with the man, but he didn't know what the man said to them.

West Valley City — whose officers fatally shot a man April 8 after he allegedly ran from police and
into a family's home — will investigate the shooting. Salt Lake City police were wearing body
cameras, and any footage gathered will be turned over to West Valley City authorities.

Pikyavit is at least the fourth person killed in a police shooting in Salt Lake County this year,
following deaths in Magna, West Valley City and Sandy. A teenager was shot by a Granite School
District police officer on March 20, but that boy is alive.

Using lethal force is sometimes necessary, Shearer said, to protect citizens and officers.

"Our job is to keep the citizens of Salt Lake City safe," he said. "We're going to do everything we
can to do that. Sometimes that puts our officers in dangerous situations, but we need to respond
appropriately to keep ourself and the community safe."

Pikyavit was convicted of multiple drug offenses, including exposing children to drugs, in 2014,
according to Utah court records.

T ribune reporter Tiffany Caldwell contributed to this story.

Copyrig ht Huntsman Family Investments, Salt Lake Tribune 2018. All Rights Reserved.

 


 
Lex Scott is the founder of the Utah chapter of Black Lives Matter, and she wants police to stop killing people of

color. 

Wednesday, the Salt Lake City Police Department released body-cam video of the April 18 shooting death of 32-

year-old Delorean Pikyavit, an American Indian. 

In addition, Elijah James Smith, 20, a black man, was shot and killed by West Valley Police on April 8. He was

unarmed. Smith was suspected of stealing a cellphone. 

Scott, a Utah native, wants to propose legislation that would require independent civilian police review boards that

could mete out punishment for wrongful acts. The proposal, developed by Utahns Against Police Brutality, also

would demand better police training and guarantee that police body-cam video be released within 24 hours,

unedited and with sound. 

to end all police shootings in Utah. 

She does not yet have legislative sponsors for a bill. Even if such legislation were to pass, it might not be enough

As Salt Lake County District Attorney Sim Gill has said on numerous occasions, under state law, if an officer feels

threatened, he or she may use lethal force, even if he or she does not see a weapon. 

That, for example, is why Salt Lake City police Officer Bron Cruz was not charged in the shooting of Dillon Taylor,

20, who was killed on Aug. 11, 2014. Taylor had his hand in his pants. It turned out he was not armed, but Cruz said

he believed Taylor was about to shoot him. (Taylor was white.) 

The West Valley City police shooting of Smith is similar. An officer ordered Smith, a black man, to take his hand out

of his pocket; when he did, the officer shot him. Smith did not have a gun. Police said Smith may have had a

screwdriver. 

civilians. 

and killed. 

“People of color should be able to live in a world where they don’t have to be afraid of police,” Scott said. 

Gill, who has been criticized for not pressing charges in some officer-involved shootings, like Taylor’s, has said: “If

we want to change outcomes and enhance accountability, we have to change the law.” 

Scott conceded the criteria for using lethal force must also be addressed in order to reduce shootings of unarmed

Her comments were made last Monday, two days before the video of Pikyavit was made public. 

In that case, police responded to a domestic violence call in Sugar House. The footage shows Pikyavit on the

porch, saying to police, “Shoot me.” Pikyavit was holding a knife, and when he stepped off the porch, he was shot

After viewing the video Wednesday, Scott said Salt Lake City police should have made a better effort at

deescalating the situation and also should have used nonlethal force. 

“This man clearly had mental health issues,” she said of Pikyavit. “This looks like suicide by cop. …But he wasn’t a

danger to these police officers.” 

assault rifle that killed Pikyavit. 

In fact, a police negotiator was on hand. One officer did use a nonlethal soft-bullet weapon. But another used an

On the wall of the modest office of Black Lives Matter off Van Winkle Expressway in Murray, Scott points to a

dozen photographs of people who were killed by police. Among them is Darien Hunt, the 22-year-old African-

American who was carrying a sword when he was shot in the back by police in Saratoga Springs, Sept. 10, 2014;

and Patrick Harmon, 50, a black man shot and killed by Salt Lake City police while resisting arrest Aug. 13, 2017. 

“We want police accountability and transparency,” Scott said. 

Scott also is a member of Citizens Advisory Group (CAG), a group of residents that meets regularly with Salt Lake

City police to discuss ways in which police and community members can better interact to reduce violence. 

Salt Lake City Police Chief Mike Brown gets high marks from Scott for what she called his progressive measures,

including better training for officers and his openness to discussing issues with residents. Still, she said, there is a

long way to go. 

along with other members of CAG. 

Police spokesman Detective Greg Wilking, in turn, gives Scott accolades for meeting with Salt Lake City police

“In order to solve the problems we have, we have to be able to talk to each other,” he said. “Protests are all right,

but when people are yelling, nobody’s listening.” 

On the other hand, an independent review board with the authority outlined by Scott most likely is not viable in

Utah, Wilking added. 

dole out discipline. 

Salt Lake City does have a Civilian Police Review Board, instituted by former Mayor Rocky Anderson, but it is not

independent of the municipality. It can make rulings on whether an officer acted outside official policy but cannot

Scott said the board is not independent and transparent enough. 

Similarly, West Valley City has a Professional Standards Review Board made up of residents that can review citizen

complaints, including “all use of force occurrences.” But like Salt Lake City’s board, it cannot bring charges. 

That, Wilking said, is left up to the district attorney, an independently elected official who has the authority to bring

criminal charges in any police action. 

Black Lives Matter has alarmed many white people across the country after protests in places such as Ferguson,

Mo, where 18-year-old Michael Brown was shot and killed by an officer on Aug. 14, 2014. 

Black Lives Matter is a civil rights movement, Scott explained, not —as some have mischaracterized it —a militant

and violent organization. 

“We do not encourage any violence or destruction of property,” she said. “We also do not want police murdering us

without accountability and inciting violence by their brutalization of protestors.” 

Although Black Lives Matter was initiated by Patrisse Marie Cullors-Brigna in the aftermath of the Feb. 26, 2012,

shooting death of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in Sanford, Fla., each community can form its own chapter, Scott

explained. She launched Utah’s group in October. 

Rather than an organization, she explained, it’s a decentralized movement, much like the civil rights movement of

the 1950s and ’60s. The Utah chapter —about 125 members strong —has organized a number of protests in Salt

Lake City that, among other things, blocked streets and resulted in traffic snarls and confusion. 

The movement seeks to make white people uncomfortable in their privilege, Scott said. 

“This is why we go to places where people are comfortable and bring the movement to their front door,” she said.

“We make people uncomfortable in the system of white supremacy. No people has ever gained their freedom by

appealing to the sensibilities of their oppressors.” 

Scott often gets death threats. She also has received anonymous messages threatening her children. It’s the price,

she said, for leading the cause in Utah. 

Credit: By Christopher Smart 
 
 


 
The father of a man who was killed by Salt Lake City police last April is suing Salt Lake City and its police

department, saying the officer who shot the 32-year-old didn’t act like a reasonable officer would in that situation. 

The lawsuit alleges the officer —who has not been identified —was not properly trained to handle individuals in a

mental health crisis, as Delorean Pikyavit was that day, and that the city and department haven’t done enough to

prepare for those situations. That “failure," the lawsuit alleges, has “created an atmosphere and culture within law

enforcement in the Salt Lake City area wherein deadly force is improperly used, and later ratified.” 

Salt Lake City spokesman Matthew Rojas declined to comment on the pending litigation. Salt Lake City’s police

department has received national attention because of its focus on de-escalation tactics and training after

controversial deaths at the hands of police in 2014 and 2015. 

For more than an hour on April 17, 2018, a police negotiator tried to get Pikyavit to come outside of his girlfriend’s

home. The girlfriend had called police earlier because she and Pikyavit had gotten into a fight, and he had held a

pair of scissors to his neck. 

He finally came outside, holding a half-pair of scissors and a knife, yelling, “Shoot me!” Less than two minutes after

he stepped onto a porch outside the home, and after dropping one of the weapons, an officer did. 

In body camera footage released after the shooting, an officer can be heard telling another to stop shouting

commands at Pikyavit and to let the negotiator talk. 

Attorneys for Pikyavit’s father point to this in the lawsuit, saying officers were yelling “multiple, inconsistent

commands” and that many were “difficult to distinguish from the overall noise and confusion.” 

It states that an officer telling another to “let the negotiator talk” is proof that that officer acted unreasonably and

excessively. The lawsuit also notes that Pikyavit “had shown substantial steps in complying with officers’

commands” by leaving the home and discarding one of the weapons he was holding. 

The lawsuit accuses the shooting officer of excessive force and battery and Salt Lake City and its police

department of failing to train its officers, negligence and other claims, including wrongful death. 

The allegations, the lawsuit states, “are more than momentary lapses in judgment, thoughtlessness, or mere

accident, and go beyond negligence; they are evidence of a more pervasive, overarching, and systematic

deprivation of citizens’ civil and constitutional rights that plagues the law enforcement and oversight bodies of

Salt Lake City.” 

Salt Lake County District Attorney Sim Gill has not yet determined if his office will file criminal charges against the

police officer who killed Pikyavit. That officer’s name hasn’t been released. 

In a statement, Neil Pikyavit’s attorney Travis R. Marker said, “On the day Delorean Pikyavit lost his life, his father

and his two young children were left with a number of questions. Those questions have remained unanswered.

Delorean’s family hopes that by filing this action, it will help them get the answers they deserve, and the answers

that any of us would want in the event a loved one’s life is taken by police.” 

Crédito: By Paighten Harkins 

 
 

Utah man shouted "shoot me" before killed by - Associated Press State
Wire: Utah (UT) - May 3, 2018
May 3, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Utah (UT)

SALT  LAKE CIT Y (AP) — Body camera footage released in an officer-involved shooting in Salt Lake
City shows the victim was armed with a knife and told police to shoot him before he was killed
during a standoff with a SWAT  team.

Salt Lake City police released the footage Wednesday of the April 18 shooting of 32-year-old
Delorean Pikyavit  on the porch of his girlfriend's home in Sugar House.
Delorean Pikyavit

Pikyavit had a knife in one hand and a pair of broken scissors in the other when he ignored officers
repeated pleas to drop the weapons and finally shouted, "Shoot me."

Police say his girlfriend called officers to the scene on a report of domestic violence and they didn't
know if she was being held hostage in the house. She had gone to a neighbor's by then but police
say she had been assaulted.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
The American Civil Liberties Union of Utah issued the following statement: 

On Wednesday morning the Salt Lake City Police Department (SLCPD) released the body-camera footage of the

April 18 police-involved shooting of Delorean Pikyavit in Sugar House. 

As of Friday the video had been viewed over 4,500 times. 

Releasing the body-camera footage does not change the fact that Delorean Pikyavit lost his life during a tragic

encounter with the police. But SLCPD's prompt and transparent release of this footage means that individuals,

organizations, and law enforcement can focus on analyzing what happened and searching for new policies and

procedures to reduce the likelihood of a similar event happening in the future. 

The footage shown on Wednesday was the first video made public following Salt Lake City's October 2017

adoption of a new protocol to release body-camera footage of officer-involved shootings within 10 business days

of the incident. This policy came after the ACLU of Utah lobbied for eight months to release the bodycam and

security footage of the shooting of Abdi Mohammad in February 2016. 

The ACLU of Utah is glad to see SLCPD following the new body-camera footage protocol and holding a press

conference to explain the footage and answer basic questions. We also support SLCPD's decision to publish this

footage without redactions. We believe that timeliness, transparency, and independent investigations regarding all

officer-involved shootings represent the best approach for law enforcement and the communities they serve to

these tragic events. 

MSTRUCK-6277802 MSTRUCK 
 
 

Police shoot, kill man after domestic violence - Associated Press State
Wire: Utah (UT) - April 19, 2018
April 19, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Utah (UT)

SALT  LAKE CIT Y (AP) — Police say officers shot and killed a Salt Lake City man after authorities
were called to a domestic violence situation.

T he Deseret News reports 32-year-old Delorean Pikyavit
following the shooting outside a Salt Lake City home.

Delorean Pikyavit  died from his injuries Wednesday

Police Sgt. Brandon Shearer says officers approached Pikyavit, and he ran back into the house.

Shearer says a SWAT  team and negotiators were called as officers did not know if a hostage was
inside. Pikyavit exited the house and approached officers about an hour later.

Shearer says Pikyavit's "actions caused the officers to respond, at which time the suspect was
shot."

Police did not say what those actions were and if he was armed.

West Valley police are investigating the shooting.

___

Information from: Deseret News, http://www.deseretnews.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 