Video, narrative leaves extended family with - Danville Register & Bee
(VA) - April 10, 2018
April 10, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | Ceillie Simkiss

Juan Markee Jones  died in a police altercation early Sunday morning.
Juan Markee Jones

T wo days later, protests have taken place at the SOVAH Health-Danville hospital and on the steps
to the Municipal Building, asking for the truth and justice.

T he hospital protest took place after Jones died inside Sunday. Pittsylvania County Sheriff's Office
deputies were called in to help with crowd control, authorities confirmed.

Both protests were peaceful and no arrests were made.

Family members and friends gathered on the lawn and in the living room of the family's Fuller
Street home Tuesday afternoon.

All were talking about the incident that took Jones' life, and the person they'd known for years.
Inside the home, a young niece and nephew watched the cartoon "Steven Universe" on the living
room television.

Jones' mother and two of his cousins said they had viewed the body-camera footage of the
incident twice, but did not wish to speak to the media yet. T hey did not give their full names.

"He was really respectful," family friend Swanya T rotter said. "He really was. My son got killed a
year ago. He's always been there for us. I cannot believe this."

She said her son, Quahoun T rotter, was shot and killed in a homicide in Greensboro, North
Carolina, on April 27, 2017.

T wo terms used to describe Jones were brought up by every family member willing to talk to the
Register & Bee — his helpfulness, and his respectfulness.

"He wasn't a nasty person," cousin Kevin Myers said. "If you needed anything, he would help you. If
you needed a ride, he'd give you one. T hat's my cousin. He was a loving person."

Danville Mayor John Gilstrap and Vice Mayor Alonzo Jones stopped by the family home Tuesday to
speak with them and offer any support they could give.

"We're just here to support the family," Alonzo Jones said. "As a community, we have to come
together."

From the white, floral condolences book by the front door, dozens of other people have come by

to offer their support to the family.

T hose condolences haven't answered the family's questions, though.

Why did someone call the police saying he was armed and dangerous? Why did police have to
shoot him at all? Why couldn't they have waited him out?

Police use of lethal force has been seen throughout the country, particularly when it comes to
young black men.

"How many people have to die?" local activist Azriel LeBeau asked. "Whose brother, whose sister,
whose father, whose son's have to die before we stand up and do something? It's enough. We in
Danville need to make a stand."

Family and friends alike questioned the need for police to shoot Jones in the chest.

"T hey didn't have to kill that boy," T rotter said. "T hey really didn't. He didn't have no gun, I'm sure."

Police provided footage from one of the officer's body cameras to local media T uesday
afternoon. T he family has requested that there not be any more protests, and that they be
allowed to grieve and find out the truth.

"We just want justice," Myers said. "We want justice for our family.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 