No charges in police shooting - News & Advance, The (Lynchburg, VA) -
June 19, 2018
June 19, 2018 | News & Advance, The (Lynchburg, VA) | Denice ThibodeauThe (Danville) Register & Bee

In the course of about 20 minutes in the early hours of April 8, a Danville woman was assaulted and
her accused assailant was shot and killed by Danville police, show videos released by the Danville
Commonwealth's Attorney's Office on Monday.

It was the culmination of a domestic dispute between Shantaria Plunkett, of Sunset Drive, and Juan
Juan
M arkee Jones
M arkee Jones , 25, that began Christmas Day, with Plunkett filing assault and battery charges
against Jones, Danville Commonwealth's Attorney Michael Newman said during a news
conference.

T he domestic abuse complaint is why police had no choice but to try to arrest Jones that early April
morning, Newman explained. And his erratic movement, later seen on video, is why officers feared
for their lives and shot to death the unarmed man.

"We are not seeking any charges on the officers," Newman said, nearly two weeks after receiving
the investigation from Virginia State Police.

Capt. Dennis Haley, with the Danville Police Department, said the two officers involved in the
shooting — Christopher S. Simpkins, with five years on the force, and David J. Branch, with two
years on the force — had been on administrative assignment throughout the investigation.

"T hey were not on the street," Haley said. "T hey were assigned to other duties."

On April 8, surveillance video appears to show Jones arriving at the Sunrise Store on North Main
Street shortly before 1 a.m. A few minutes later, Plunkett arrived and walked over to his vehicle
briefly, then walked toward her car.

Jones followed her and shoved her into the side of her car, and Plunkett fell to the ground. He then
is seen hitting Plunkett then circling his hands around her neck.

"He was actually strangling her," Newman said, noting the marks on her throat later were visible to
police officers.

Jones drove off and Plunkett called 911, reporting the incident and asking for police and ambulance
assistance, then went to her home on Sunset Drive.

Newman said the residence was Plunkett's, but she had allowed Jones to stay there despite
"multiple reports of being called to the address," Virginia State Police Special Agent Rick Conley
said.

Moments later, Jones pulled up.

A neighbor's surveillance video shows him opening the screen door at the front of the house then
trying to kick the door open.

Plunkett again called 911, leaving her house through the back door. While she was on the phone,
the first police car arrived. Ultimately, five police officers with body cameras were at the address.

Newman showed video taken by Officer C.A. Mitchell's body camera, with slightly different angles
than the video police had released shortly after the incident — but the end result was the same.

Jones tried to leave the scene, driving to the end of the cul-desac. On the video, officers are heard
telling Jones to wait since there was nowhere for him to go on the dead-end street.

"T he officers did what they were supposed to do," Newman said. "T hey tried to wait him out."

T hen Jones surprised them by driving through brush into a wooded area, where his car stopped.

Officers ran down the road, shouting for Jones to get out of the car and show his hands. Instead,
he stood by the car, with his side to the police so his right arm and hand were hidden.

T he officers tried using a less-than-lethal Taser to subdue him, but it failed because one of its two
prongs got caught in the brush. When Jones swung toward the police with his arm raised, five shots
were fired, two hitting Jones. He was declared dead at SOVAH Health-Danville.

It was an event that seemed to fall into the national narrative of unarmed black men being shot to
death by police. So did the protest that erupted on the steps of the Danville Municipal Building the
day after the shooting. T o quash rumors, Danville Police Chief Scott Booth addressed the
protesters and the next day released some footage of the event.

Immediately after the shooting, local police called in the state police to investigate. At the Monday
news conference, Newman showed the 3 inches-thick notebooks full of documents and reports,
and videos of the scene at the Sunrise Store, tapes of the 911 calls and body camera video of the
whole time police were on Sunset Drive.

After reviewing the findings, Newman said he would not be prosecuting the police officers.

Conley and his partner in the investigation, Special Agent Matthew Wade, said the state police are
being called in by more local police departments to investigate officer-involved shootings in an
effort to show an impartial investigation is taking place.

One tool they said is very helpful in those investigations are the body cameras many department
now have.

"T hey pay for themselves," Conley noted.

Newman said the release of the initial body camera video showed exactly how things played out.

"Danville is ahead of the curve with body cameras," he said, noting the cameras tracked the
incident from the officers' arrival to "the unfortunate shooting."

"We're being open," he said. "We're not covering anything up."

© Copyrig ht 2018, The News & Advance, Lynchburg , VA

 