DA requesting ‘no further information’ in - Claremore Daily Progress,
The (OK) - April 2, 2018
April 2, 2018 | Claremore Daily Progress, The (OK) | Staff Writer

No further information is being sought in the ongoing investigation of a shooting in Owasso
involving police officers which led to the death of an Afghanistan war veteran.

In a statement from Rogers County District Attorney Matt Ballard, ""T he Oklahoma State Bureau
of Investigation has conducted a thorough investigation and presented the evidence collected and
further briefed my staff, including my chief criminal prosecutor, first assistant, chief investigator,
and myself. After reviewing the evidence provided, we have not requested any further information
and are satisfied that the investigation is complete, pending compilation of the final report. I will
announce my formal finding(s) when the final report is complete, which I understand will be very
soon."

According to reports filed by Owasso Police, On Wednesday, March 21, Owasso Police officers
Casey Lawson and Laura Lehner responded to an address on East 108 Place North in Owasso in
reference to a concern that a man identified as Duane Preciado
threatening suicide.

Duane Preciado  was at that address and was

Officers were told by dispatch that Preciado was an Afghanistan war veteran, and when they
arrived, they made contact with Preciado at the front door of the residence, the report indicated.

Officers identified themselves as Owasso Police officers and in less than one minute of making
contact, Preciado threatened to shoot them, according to police reports.

One of the officers saw what he believed to be a rifle or shotgun in the hands of Preciado, and
officers then retreated to a position of cover behind a vehicle in a neighboring driveway. While in
the process of moving away from the house, officers reported they heard what was believed to be
a bullet being chambered into a gun.

While the officers were behind cover, they called for backup and began discussing their options to
handle the situation safely.

While still behind cover, officers could hear (Preciado) yelling at them, indicating he was "going to
start shooting" and that he was "going to kill them," reports indicate.

At some point, Preciado exited the house and began walking towards the officers' patrol vehicles,
holding a loaded AK-47 rifle and a loaded Glock handgun, according to reports.

Preciado yelled at the officers, "Kill me, kill me, at which point, he was almost to the street. Officers
yelled multiple commands at Preciado, ordering him to drop the guns. Preciado responded with
obscenities, and turned towards the officers and raised the handgun in their direction, according to

police reports.

T he rifle was also being pointed towards the officers. Both officers fired their handguns at the
same time, which resulted in Preciado's death.

From the time the officers made contact with Preciado at the front door to the time the officers
fired in defense of their lives, less than five minutes had passed, according to reports.

In a statement issued by Owasso Police Chief Scott Chambless, the staff of the Owasso Police
Department is saddened by the necessity to take a life.

"In the vast majority of incidents, officers are able to de-escalate a situation or use lesser means
of force to resolve an issue," Chief Chambless said. "In this instance, Preciado gave the officers no
choice but to defend their lives and the lives of innocent citizens in the neighborhood. After
Preciado threatened to shoot the officers, they retreated to safety. Preciado left his home armed
with two loaded firearms while stating his intent to kill the officers. Preciado refused to drop the
guns and instead pointed the guns at the officers, forcing them to shoot.

"Mr. Preciado spent many years in defense of our country," Chief Chambless continued. "His life
should be honored for this service and not tarnished by the choices he made on this one day. T he
Owasso Police Department wants to extend its gratitude to the citizens of Owasso for their show
of support for our officers and the empathy expressed for the Preciado family."

Copyrig ht 2018, The Claremore Daily Progress / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 