DA: Larimer deputy justified in fatal October - Daily Reporter-Herald,
The (Loveland, CO) - November 16, 2018
November 16, 2018 | Daily Reporter-Herald, The (Loveland, CO) | By Hans Peter Loveland Reporter-Herald

T he lethal force used by Larimer County Sheriff's Deputy Matthew Bordewick to shoot and kill 25-
year-old Travis Craven
Office.

T ravis Craven has been deemed justified by the Larimer County District Attorney's

A Friday opinion letter from Cliff Riedel stated that Bordewick's decision to shoot Craven Oct. 8 was
based on his belief that Craven intended to shoot at deputies with a deadly weapon, in this case, a
pistol.

A Critical Incident Response Team investigation headed by the Loveland Police Department
revealed that after a high-speed pursuit and a PIT  maneuver used to run Craven off the road,
Bordewick exited his vehicle and demanded that Craven drop his pistol. Craven refused after
multiple commands, and "squared up" to point his gun at Bordewick, who then fired four to five
rounds.

T hree of those rounds connected with Craven; a shot above his left eye is believed to have been
the fatal round.

Riedel said three citizen witnesses saw the shooting, and all three testified that Craven had
attempted to shoot at Bordewick before being shot.

Further investigation revealed that Craven — a Greeley resident — had used methamphetamine.
His parents told authorities that in the days before his death, Craven had visited one of their
properties in Red Feather Lakes and left the place "in disarray," leaving evidence of meth use.

His parents also said Craven had been "strung out" on meth for some time and often had
delusions about his father being an undercover law enforcement officer.

On Oct. 8, Craven had an altercation with his father at the Red Feather Lakes apartment and at one
point, struck his father in the face with the butt of a shotgun, according to Riedel's letter. He also
dealt several blows to his father, choked him, and held a pistol to his head, threatening to kill him.
Craven left his father there and told him he was going to kill the family dog, Sassy, before leaving in
his white Subaru.

Craven's father got in contact with Larimer County dispatch, and Sheriff's Deputy Nathan Rankin
arrived on scene to follow up on the incident.

While Rankin was there, Craven returned in the white Subaru. Rankin drew his gun and ordered
Craven to cooperate, but instead Craven released Sassy, ran to his vehicle and sped off; Rankin
alerted dispatch of the incident and the chase soon followed; Bordewick performed his PIT

maneuver at 12:39 p.m., and 10 seconds later — according to dispatch records — shot Craven.

Craven's father told Rankin that Craven intended to "shoot it out" with law enforcement and force
someone to shoot him.

Riedel's letter concluded that if Craven had survived the incident, he would've faced charges of
first-degree attempted murder of a peace officer, second-degree assault, menacing with a deadly
weapon and vehicular eluding. He added that both Craven's father and Bordewick had undergone
reasonable fear for their lives as the result of Craven's actions that day.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Daily Reporter-Herald, The (Loveland, CO), All Rights Reserved.

 