Coroner: Driver killed by Rock Falls police shot - Sauk Valley
Newspapers (Dixon-Sterling, IL) - January 31, 2018
January 31, 2018 | Sauk Valley Newspapers (Dixon-Sterling, IL) | KATHLEEN A. SCHULTZ
kschultz@saukvalley.com 815-625-3600, ext. 5535 @KathleenSchul10

ROCK FALLS – T he driver killed in Friday's traffic stop was shot "several times in the back,"
Whiteside County Coroner Joe McDonald said.

McDonald was responding to an email from Sauk Valley Media asking how many times and where
Nathaniel T . "Nate" Edwards, 43, was shot.

"T o protect the integrity of the case and the ongoing investigation, which is in fact an active case, I
will state that the deceased suffered multiple gunshot wounds from the back and died from those
wounds," McDonald's responded in an email that arrived after deadline Monday.

"T oxicology and many other samples were taken during the examination and will be sent for
analysis," the email said. Such tests typically take from 2 to 8 weeks to process.

McDonald's initial news release Monday said only: "T he autopsy was completed today on the
death of Nathaniel Edwards
into the events continues, as well as lab testing and toxicology results."

N athaniel Edwards ; preliminary cause of death – gunshot wound. Further investigation

Police have said Edwards was reversing his car "into the path" of the officer who shot him – and
who therefore would have been behind the vehicle at the time, which explains why Edwards was
shot in the back.

In a news release T uesday, Lt. Chris Endress of the ISP Integrity T ask Force, who is overseeing the
investigation, said dash-cam footage from a Rock Falls and a Whiteside County squad car on scene
at the time, and a deputy's squad car that arrived moments after the shooting, would not be made
public until the investigation and criminal proceedings, if any, are over.

"All the audio video recordings collected are items of evidence in an ongoing investigation, and as
such will not be available to the public until the state's attorney completes his review and findings,"
the release said.

T hat decision is in compliance with the Illinois Police and Community Relations Improvement Act,
which also requires the release of the report "if the state's attorney, or a designated special
prosecutor, determines there is no basis to prosecute the law enforcement officer involved ... or if
the law enforcement officer is not otherwise charged or indicted."

Endress' release was sent in response to several Freedom of Information Act requests for
dashboard and body camera footage. Neither the county nor Rock Falls PD wear body cameras,
he noted, and a second RFPD squad car on scene was not equipped with any recording equipment.

According to investigators, Rock Falls police attempted to pull Edwards over that night for an as-
yet unspecified reason. He did not immediately comply, was pursued, and eventually pulled into the
driveway at 1304 Franklin St., where family members said he was attending a party.

He did not respond to officers' verbal commands, and instead put the car in reverse and
accelerated toward the Rock Falls officer, who then shot him, investigators said.

Rock Falls officers and Whiteside County sheriff's deputies performed CPR and used an automated
external defibrillator until emergency medical personnel arrived; but Edwards was pronounced dead
in the CGH Medical Center Emergency Department at 8:48 p.m.

Edwards, who is black, was the sole occupant of the white Cadillac.

T he officer, a 10-year veteran of the force, who is white, has not been identified. He was training a
new hire that night, Endress said, and as is protocol, is on paid administrative leave while the
investigation progresses.

Investigators have not said what prompted the traffic stop.

Edwards has several felony convictions for driving on a revoked license, and in fact was doing so
that night, and a family member has said the plates on his white Cadillac did not belong to the car.

His most recent charge of driving on a revoked license was levied on Oct. 30 and was in the
process of being adjudicated in Whiteside County Court.​

ABOUT  T HE ACT

Go to shawurl.com/380n to read the full text of the 50 ILCS 727, the Illinois Police and Community
Relations Improvement Act.

Copyrig ht 2018, Sauk Valley Newspapers (Dixon-Sterling , IL). All Rights Reserved.

 