DA: Bristol Twp. officers justified in fatal - Bucks County Courier Times
(Levittown, PA) - March 25, 2018 - page A4
March 25, 2018 | Bucks County Courier Times (Levittown, PA) | Christian Menno cmenno@theintell.com
@cmenno_intell | Article | Page A4

T wo Bristol Township police officers “were fully justified” in fatally shooting a man earlier this
month, according Bucks County District Attorney Matthew Weintraub.

On March 2, police responded to Edgely Road near Runway Road where they encountered 29-
year-old Jose Gomez- Burg os
police for allegedly stabbing a woman earlier that day.

Jose Gomez- Burg os , who was armed with a hatchet. He was wanted by New York City

Weintraub said before arriving in the area, Gomez-Burgos called 911 and admitted to the stabbing.
Family members reported that he told them he wanted to die, he added.

T wo video cameras on police vehicles showed Gomez-Burgos raising the hatchet and quickly
walking toward Officer David Wiser, Weintraub said. T he man ignored commands to drop the
weapon and when he got within 5 to 8 feet of police, Wiser and Officer Patrick Kitchenman shot at
him, the DA added. A knife was found hidden in his left hand.

Gomez-Burgos was shot three times and pronounced dead at Jefferson T orresdale Hospital after
attempts to save him.

“Unquestionably, the defendant disregarded lawful commands from Officer Wiser and other
officers to stop and to drop his weapons,” Weintraub wrote in a letter to Bristol Township police
Chief Robert Coulton on Friday. “T he subject clearly placed Officer Wiser in apparent danger of
Jose Gomez- Burg os  created a situation in which it was inevitable
death or serious bodily injury. ... Jose Gomez- Burg os
that the officers would open fire at him in both self-defense and in defense of their fellow officers.”

T he investigation was conducted by county detectives, as is the standard procedure for any fatal
police-involved shooting.

© Copyrig ht 2018 Bucks County Courier Times, All Rights Reserved.

 