Protests disturbing, says sister of man fatally - St. Paul Pioneer Press
(MN) - August 11, 2018 - page A1
August 11, 2018 | St. Paul Pioneer Press (MN) | Mara H. Gottfried mgottfried@pioneerpress.com | Page A1

Libby Meyers wishes her brother were still alive. And she wishes the noise would stop.

As Meyers made funeral arrangements for William James Hug hes
the public firestorm that emerged since St. Paul police officers shot her brother last weekend.

William James Hug hes , she has been disturbed by

"It's really hard when you lose somebody, it's really hard when you lose them like this and it's really
hard when all of this stuff is on the news with people chanting 'Racism,' " Meyers said. "I don't think
it had anything to do with his race."

Hughes, 43, was a member of the White Earth Nation, a northern Minnesota Ojibwe community.

Native Lives Matter organizers, activists and other relatives of Hughes held protests during the
week, calling for justice.

Meyers doesn't understand why her brother was killed, but she doesn't want to speculate. She said
she will wait for answers until she can see officers' body camera footage and the Minnesota
Bureau of Criminal Apprehension does its investigation.

"I'm not pointing fingers," Meyers said.

RESPONSE T O 911 CALL

T he man who said he called 911 told the Pioneer Press he was a longtime friend of Hughes.

He said they were watching T V at Hughes' apartment in the Summit-University neighborhood
when Hughes suddenly jumped up and fired two shots at the wall. He was fearful, ran out of the
the apartment and called 911 to report shots fired.

T he man, who asked not to be named for his safety, went to a friend's house and found out later
that Hughes had been killed.

St. Paul police officers responded to a 911 call of multiple shots fired on the upper floor of a multi-
unit dwelling at 905 St. Anthony Ave., the BCA has said.

After Hughes came out of an apartment door, two officers shot him. T he BCA has not said what
led officers to shoot Hughes.

Officers were wearing body cameras and St. Paul Police Chief T odd Axtell said Tuesday he
anticipates releasing videos within 10 days, after letting Hughes' family view them first.

GREW UP IN PLYMOUT H WIT H ADVENTUROUS SPIRIT

T he snowboard that Hughes held in one of his high school senior pictures hinted at his
adventurous spirit.

"He wanted to see the whole planet," Meyers said.

T he siblings grew up in Plymouth, where Meyers said she watched over her younger brother. T hey
also have a younger half sister.

Hughes attended the Wayzata Public Schools, including Wayzata High School.

Hughes and Meyers used to work together, processing mortgages -- "he was very meticulous and
detail orientated," Meyers remembered. But they lost their jobs when the housing bubble burst.

Hughes was also mechanically inclined. He would mow lawns, shovel driveways, and do plumbing
and electrical work.

Neighbors in the St. Paul apartment building where Hughes was shot said he did handyman work
and painting around the building. Hearing about that didn't surprise Meyers -- "he was very kind-
hearted," she said.

BROT HER STRUGGLED WIT H CHEMICAL DEPENDENCY

T here was a point that Hughes and Meyers were next-door neighbors in Crystal, but they hadn't
been in contact in recent years.

Hughes struggled with chemical dependency, though he had done well in treatment at one point,
Meyers remembered.

But about five years ago, Meyers said, "I put my foot down one day and I said, 'I can't be in your
life if you're doing that because I can't see you do that.' I wish I would have ended with saying, 'Call
me when you stop doing it.'"

As far as Meyers knows, Hughes wasn't in touch with most relatives, though a cousin contacted
him about six weeks ago.

Hughes told the cousin "he was really sick" with a disease that caused scar tissue to form on his
organs and he said "his doctor thought he had less than a year left," according to Meyers.

'IS MY BROT HER DEAD?'

When BCA agents and St. Paul police investigators came to Meyers' home on Sunday, she said she
asked them, "Is my brother dead?"

"I didn't know why else the police would be coming to me," she said. "I was thinking that he

overdosed and they told me that he was killed in an officer-involved shooting."

Axtell, the police chief, called Meyers on Sunday.

"He said he was really sorry about my loss and when they know more information, they'll convey it
to me," Meyers said.

Meyers held a private funeral service for Hughes on Friday. She said she hopes to save up money
to purchase a headstone.

OT HER RELAT IVES SAY T HEY WANT  T O HOLD RALLIES

At a rally for Hughes on Monday, a woman who identified herself as relative said that Hughes was
a cousin of Philip Quinn, who was fatally shot by St. Paul officers in 2015.

Meyers said on Friday that she had never heard of Quinn before.

But Hughes' half sister, Melissa Waukazo, and her cousin, Deana Waukazo, said Friday that the
men were related.

Deana Waukazo said they have wanted to hold rallies for Hughes because "this whole thing just
doesn't make sense to us. We want justice and we don't want him to be forgotten."

Mara H. Gottfried can be reached at 651-228-5262 and mgottfried@pioneerpress.com, or on
T witter at @MaraGottfried.

Copyrig ht 2018 Saint Paul Pioneer Press

 