BCA Investigating St. Paul Officer Involved - Targeted News Service
(USA) - August 7, 2018
August 7, 2018 | Targeted News Service (USA) | Press Releases

ST . PAUL, Minnesota, Aug. 7 -- T he Minnesota Department of Public Safety issued the following
news release:

T he Minnesota Department of Public Safety Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA) has identified
two officers who discharged their firearms during a fatal officer involved shooting incident that
happened on Sunday. Both are on standard administrative leave.

* Officer Matthew Jones has been with the St. Paul Police Department for five years.

* Officer Vincent Adams has also been with the department for five years.

In addition, the Ramsey County Medical Examiner's Office has identified the individual who died
during the incident as William James Hug hes
died of multiple gunshot wounds. T he BCA is investigating the incident at the request of the St.
Paul Police Department.

William James Hug hes , 43, of 905 St. Anthony Avenue in St. Paul. Hughes

St. Paul police officers at approximately 2:30 a.m. Sunday responded to a 911 call of multiple shots
fired on the upper floor of a multi-unit dwelling at 905 St. Anthony Avenue in St. Paul.

According to the BCA's preliminary investigation, the officers entered an enclosed porch and
knocked on one of two interior apartment doors. A man, now identified as Hughes, emerged
through the other door. At one point the officers discharged their firearms, striking Hughes. Mr.
Hughes was pronounced deceased at the scene.

BCA crime scene personnel later recovered a gun at the scene. Both officers were wearing body
cameras, which captured the incident.

T his is an open and active investigation and the BCA continues to conduct interviews and analyze
evidence to determine the facts of the incident. T he BCA requests that any member of the public
who witnessed or captured video of the incident contact the BCA at 651-793-7000.

When the investigation is complete, the BCA will turn its findings over without recommendation to
the Ramsey County Attorney's Office for review.

BCA Investigations of Officer Involved Incidents

BCA agents conduct thorough, independent investigations of conflict incidents, including officer
involved shootings, at the request of the local agency. T he BCA conducts these investigations, at
the request of local law enforcement agencies, if the case(s) meet the criteria necessary to require

an outside, independent review under the state's standard protocols.

Like other BCA investigations, an investigation into an officer involved incident will take as long as is
needed to get a complete understanding of the events that transpired. These investigations can
include:

* Processing scenes.

* Interviewing witnesses, including officers.

* Collecting and analyzing evidence.

Once all the information is gathered, the BCA completes a report on all of the facts in the case.
T he BCA then turns its findings over to a county attorney for a complete review and possible
charges.

Under Minnesota law, the BCA is not allowed to discuss active investigations. Once the
investigation is inactive, most data is public. (See Minnesota Statutes, section 13.82 subd. 7 for
more information).

MST RUCK-6400782 MST RUCK

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Targeted News Service. All rights reserved.

 