Man accused of assault dies after he’s shot by - Star-Ledger, The
(Newark, NJ) - November 14, 2018 - page 003
November 14, 2018 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ) | Alex Napoliello For The Star-Ledger | Page 003

A 39-year-old Manahawkin man was shot by police in a million-dollar Mantoloking home Monday
after authorities tried to arrest him for assaulting a woman, officials announced T uesday.

Edward M . Walsh was pronounced dead at the scene, according to a statement released by
Edward M . Walsh
Ocean County Prosecutor Bradley D. Billhimer.

However, the statement said Walsh, who was armed with a knife, had also slashed his own throat,
and that an autopsy was pending. Officers opened fire on Walsh after Walsh stabbed a K-9, the
prosecutor said.

Walsh was wanted by authorities on charges of kidnapping, aggravated assault, theft and weapons
offenses for an incident in Sayreville on Sunday involving a woman he knew. NJ Advance Media is
withholding Walsh’s relationship to the woman because she is a victim of a crime and could be
identified.

After the incident, the prosecutor said, Walsh stole the woman’s car and drove it to Lacey, about
50 miles south of Sayreville. Lacey police contacted the Mantoloking Police Department shortly
before noon and informed them that they received “reliable information” that Walsh was at a
house on Barnegat Lane in the borough, the statement said.

Billhimer said Walsh knew of that home because he was previously married to a family member of
the prior owner. According to property records, the home sold for $1.55 million in February 2017.

T he current owner told NJ Advance Media in a phone interview Tuesday morning that she had no
involvement in what happened on Monday.

“It was completely random,” the owner said, noting that she doesn’t occupy the home full-time.

According to police, the current owner gave a group of Mantoloking police officers, an Ocean
County sheriff’s officer with a K-9 and one Bay Head police officer permission to enter the home.

Inside, the authorities encountered Walsh and yelled at him to drop a knife he was holding, the
statement said. When Walsh did not release the knife, prosecutors said, K-9 Kane was released.

Walsh, who was approximately 20 feet from the officers, stabbed the K-9 with the knife and that’s
when officers fired at him, according to the statement.

Officers discovered that Walsh also had a knife wound across his neck, but it’s unclear when it was
made, officials said.

T he K-9 was taken to the Red Bank Veterinary Hospital in T inton Falls and is expected to recover,
the statement said.

Because the shooting involved a sheriff’s officer, the prosecutor said, the New Jersey State Police
were brought in to assist with the investigation.

T he investigation is being handled by the Ocean County Prosecutor’s Office, according to a
spokesman with the Attorney General’s Office.

Authorities urged anyone with information to call detectives Brant Uricks or Lindsay Woodfield of
the Ocean County Prosecutor’s Office’s Major Crimes Unit at 732-929-2027.

Mantoloking is a tiny barrier island borough with approximately 300 full-time residents. It swells in
size with thousands of vacationers during the summer.

On T uesday, the few full-time residents in the area said they were shocked when confronted with
such a large police presence, an unusual sight for a sliver of a town lined with multimillion-dollar
homes.

It’s unclear how Walsh gained entry into the house on Barnegat Lane. Yellow crime-scene tape
remained up on Tuesday morning.

NJ Advance Media research editor Vinessa Erminio contributed to this report.

Copyrig ht 2018 The Star-Ledg er. All Rights Reserved.

 