Officers on leave after police shooting in Walton - Pharos-Tribune
(Logansport, IN) - February 2, 2018
February 2, 2018 | Pharos-Tribune (Logansport, IN) | From staff reports

T hree officers with the Cass County Sheriff's Department are on administrative leave following the
police action shooting in Walton last week, according to a press release from the sheriff's
department.

T he Cass County E911 Dispatch Center received a call for a man stabbing himself at a residence in
the 600 block of Carroll Drive in Walton at about 4:11 a.m. Saturday, Jan. 27, the press release
states. Cass County Sheriff's deputies along with emergency medical personnel responded to the
call, the release continues.

William Pollard.
T he Indiana State Police identified the man later on Saturday as William Pollard

When officers arrived, a female resident met them outside and led them into the residence, the
release goes on to state. Seconds later, the deputies advised that shots had been fired inside the
home and that they requested additional assistance, according to the release.

T he release states Cass County Sheriff's Sgt. Pat Zeider, Deputy Ryan Preston and Reserve
Deputy Gary Baumgardner were in the residence when the shooting occurred.

Zeider is a 20-year veteran with the Cass County Sheriff's Department, Preston is a one-year
veteran with the sheriff's department and previously worked for the Logansport Police
Department for seven years and Baumgardner is a reserve deputy with less than one year of
service with the sheriff's department, the release indicates.

All three officers were placed on administrative leave immediately after the shooting pending an
investigation by the Indiana State Police, according to the release.

Prompt Ambulance Central, Walton first responders, Indiana State Police, Cass County Coroner
and the Logansport Police Department assisted at the scene, the release states.

T he release indicates the investigation continues and more details will be released when they
become available.

Copyrig ht 2018, Pharos-Tribune / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 