MONTGOMERY COUNTY COUNCILMEMBER MARC ELRICH'S - US Fed
News (USA) - June 12, 2018
June 12, 2018 | US Fed News (USA)

ROCKVILLE, Md., June 12 -- Montgomery County issued the following City Council news release:

T oday Councilmember Marc Elrich expressed concern about the officer-involved shooting that
occurred yesterday afternoon on Three Oaks Drive in Silver Spring. Councilmember Elrich called for
"the highest level of attention and thoroughness" in the investigation of the incident.

Councilmember Elrich's full statement is below:

I received the very sad news last night regarding the loss of a life in an officer-involved shooting
yesterday in Silver Spring. T he police have released a statement and as the details of the case are
brought forward, we will have greater clarity about what happened and, more importantly, how and
why it happened.

T he family and friends of the deceased, Mr. Robert Lawrence White
Robert Lawrence White, are in my thoughts. Like
everyone I am especially concerned about an officer-involved shooting of an unarmed individual.
T his has to warrant the highest level of attention and thoroughness in the investigation and I
expect the camera footage to be released as soon as practical, given the investigation. T he family
has every right to expect access to every bit of information available as soon as possible and they
should expect an outcome where justice is served.

As the County moves forward in the investigation I want to be sure everyone understands the
process. As many have heard there is footage from both the officer's body worn camera and the
camera of the second officer to arrive on the scene, which is being reviewed. Footage of this
nature is so important in an investigation like this, which is why I was committed to supporting the
Police Chief's request for cameras for all of MCPD's sworn officers. T here were also several
witnesses at the scene who have provided their statements to the investigators. Our officers all
receive special de-escalation training in hopes of diffusing crisis situations and avoiding
confrontations that can turn deadly, as this one did. T he officer's actions in this regard will be
critically important in understanding what happened here. I anxiously await the results of the
investigation into this tragic encounter.

Once all the evidence has been gathered it will be turned over to the Howard County State's
Attorney's Office, who will then decide how to proceed with the case. T his arrangement was
agreed upon a few years ago to help ensure that there is no sense of partiality because of the
close working relationship between our State's Attorney and the Police Department. T he
Montgomery County State's Attorney's office staff work with our officers on a daily basis, which is
why it's best that a final determination be made by Howard County's State's Attorney. T hat is why
I supported this arrangement when it was proposed by the County Executive.

T he officer involved has been placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of the
investigation, which is the standard protocol with an officer-involved shooting. All camera footage
was immediately turned over to Major Crimes and it will be preserved for the investigation.
Additionally, the footage is likely to be released to the public once the initial investigation has been
completed. Part of that process will involve the family of Mr. White, who will have a chance to see
the footage before it is released to the public.

I understand the anxiety and anger that the shooting of an unarmed black man engenders. I
deeply regret that this incident occurred, and we will thoroughly examine our protocols and
procedures in the light of this tragedy.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
content.services@htlive.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 US Fed News, via HT Dig ital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved.

 