CAIR Condemns Fatal Police-Shooting of Unarmed - Targeted News
Service (USA) - June 12, 2018
June 12, 2018 | Targeted News Service (USA) | Press Releases

BALT IMORE, Maryland, June 12 -- T he Council on American-Islamic Relations issued the following
news release:

T he Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), the nation's largest Muslim civil rights and
advocacy organization, today condemned the police-involved shooting of an unarmed Maryland
man and called for a thorough and independent investigation into the circumstances that led to the
man's death.

T he victim, 41-year-old Robert Lawrence White
County Police officer Anand Badgujar.

Robert Lawrence White, was fatally shot yesterday by Montgomery

SEE: Montgomery County police officer fatally shoots man in Silver Spring
(https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/montgomery-county-police-at-scene-of-
police-involved-shooting-in-silver-spring/2018/06/11/c902d5ae-6dad-11e8-afd5-
778aca903bbe_story.html)

"Communities of color nationwide have long been disproportionately impacted by police-involved
shootings," said CAIR Director of Maryland Outreach Zainab Chaudry. "We condemn the death of
yet another unarmed African-American man in Maryland and extend our condolences to Mr.
White's family as we demand a full, transparent and independent investigation."

Later this evening, a protest cosponsored by SURJ Montgomery County, Montgomery County Civil
Rights Coalition and other groups is planned to be held at the Veterans Plaza in Silver Spring.

Earlier this year, CAIR spearheaded a historic rally against racially motivated police shootings in
which Muslim communities and allies gathered in Baltimore to demand justice for Stephon Clark -
an unarmed 22-year-old father of two who was shot 20 times and killed by police in Sacramento,
Calif., on March 18.

SEE: Muslims In Baltimore Rally Against Fatal Shooting Of Stephon Clark By Sacramento Police

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=AyodYZLmZkI

T hat event - cosponsored by the Islamic Council of North America - Council for Social Justice
(ICNA-CJS), MPOWER Change, Muslim American Society (MAS), and Muslim Social Services Agency
(MSSA) - was designed to raise awareness, galvanize communities and issue specific calls to action
to address the crisis of police-involved shootings in minority communities.

CAIR is America's largest Muslim civil liberties and advocacy organization. Its mission is to enhance

understanding of Islam, protect civil rights, promote justice, and empower American Muslims.

MST RUCK-6327631 MST RUCK

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Targeted News Service. All rights reserved.

 