
 
Montgomery police find lawful use of lethal force, no breach of policy 

The Montgomery County Police Department has cleared a patrol officer of wrongdoing in the fatal shooting of a

41-year-old man in Silver Spring last summer, the officer's lawyer said, while some lawmakers and officials have

continued to question why the man was stopped and whether the officer was slow to activate his body camera.  

The findings of the department's internal investigation, which examined whether Officer Anand Badgujar followed

police department policies, follow conclusions last summer by Howard County prosecutors, who cleared Badgujar

of any criminal wrongdoing.  

according to police officials.  

The officer, who was placed on administrative leave following the June 11 shooting of Robert Lawrence White,

returned to active duty on Sept. 8 and by the end of the year was back on the road with the patrol division,

Badgujar was informed this week of the internal investigation's findings, said his attorney, Morgan Leigh. He was

not disciplined or reprimanded by the department, nor should he have been, she added. "He is pleased and

Her statements were confirmed, in part, by a memorandum released by police officials Wednesday that described

relieved," Leigh said.  

key findings in the internal investigation. 

justified," the officials concluded. 

confidential under Maryland law.  

"The facts and circumstances of the encounter . . . demonstrate that the use of deadly force was lawful and

A police spokesman declined to discuss details of the internal investigation saying such investigations are

Body-camera recordings of the encounter, released by police last year, showed White charging and assaulting the

officer in a parking lot before the officer fired at least eight rounds. 

Montgomery residents have questioned the shooting and why Badgujar stopped White. 

Badgujar did not activate his body camera until after spotting White, following him in his patrol car, getting out of

his car and then following him on foot. 

White, several elected officials said. 

That makes it difficult to independently evaluate whether the officer's stated suspicions were enough to stop

In an interview Wednesday, County Executive Marc Elrich (D) said the department should alter its policies to

require officers to activate body cameras earlier, when they are about to potentially engage with citizens. 

Under current department policy, officers are required to activate the cameras for a variety of duties, including "all

enforcement and investigation related citizen contacts." The policy allows officers to delay activating cameras

until "the first reasonable opportunity" if it would be "unsafe, impossible or impractical" to do so. 

"I can't say there was something suspicious," Elrich said. "I can't say there wasn't anything suspicious, but I don't

think it's possible to reach a conclusion based on one party's testimony when the camera footage isn't available." 

Elrich said a policy on body cameras should reflect the need to capture as much of an encounter as possible and

that a policy change would factor into his decision over who will succeed Police Chief J. Thomas Manger, who

retired last week.  

"What ought to come out of this, the moment you decide you are going to question somebody, the camera goes on

- including when you are in the car," Elrich said. 

The cameras used by county police have a standby mode set to capture the 30 seconds of video before an officer

activates the body camera. 

previous minutes of video and audio. 

On Thursday, a spokeswoman for Axon, the maker of the cameras, said the feature can be set to capture up to two

Badgujar activated his body camera within department guidelines, according to Leigh. 

Council member Will Jawando (D-At Large), who has introduced a bill to require independent law enforcement

investigators to review Montgomery's police-involved deaths, said he believes White was racially profiled. 

The officer is of Indian descent. White was African American. 

"I understand he charged the officer, but we have to ask: Did that interaction have to happen? Why wasn't the

camera on sooner? Why did you pursue him in the first place?" Jawando said. "It's a tragedy that we have someone

Leigh said her client has always been able to articulate what led him to make the stop and that it had nothing to do

Cameras; Criminal investigations; Camcorders; State laws

Publication title:

The Washington Post; Washington, D.C.

dead and nothing's going to happen." 

with White's race. 

dan.morse@washpost.com 

jennifer.barrios@washpost.com 
 
 
