‘I didn't want to do it!' Video shows deputy - Miami Herald, The (FL) -
August 6, 2018
August 6, 2018 | Miami Herald, The (FL) | Madeleine Marr, Miami Herald

Newly released body cam footage documents the frightening moments leading up to a deputy
fatally shooting a man in Central Florida.

According to a police report from the Volusia County Sheriff's Office, Deputy Brandon Watson
responded to a domestic violence call at a Seville home a little after 7:30 p.m. Friday.

T he video, released by the sheriff's office and carrying a graphic content warning, first shows the
deputy asking two men sitting on the steps at the entrance about a call he received about a man
and a woman fighting.

T he men seem calm but refuse to answer questions about what's going on. A woman carrying a
child comes out of the house and hands the deputy a phone. T he woman on the line says, "I kicked
him out of the house. He has a knife."

Watson hands the phone back to the woman on the landing who says something in Spanish about
him "beating me up."

Suddenly, a shirtless man on the steps lunges at the woman with the child.

"Don't you f---ing move!" yells the deputy, then T ases the man in the back and tells him to get on
the ground.

T he suspect falls down, screaming in pain and groaning.

"Chill!" yells the deputy. "Stop!"

Emmanuel Alquisiras .
T he deputy zaps the man again. He was later identified as Emmanuel Alquisiras

In the video, the deputy yells, "Stop resisting and put your hands behind your back. Get your hands
behind your back!"

"I don't care if you shoot me!"

"T hat's the last thing I want to do!"

"I'm not leaving. You're going to have to kill me," Alquisiras says.

T hat's when the suspect tries to grab the T aser.

"Let go of the f--ing Taser now! Put your hands behind your back! I ain't f---ing around no more!"
screams Watson, who instructs the children to get inside.

"You don't know who you're f--ing with, amigo," the suspect says. "Why are you doing this in front
of my kids!?"

T he suspect and deputy struggle and the Taser goes off again, then five gunshots are fired.

"Stop!" yells the deputy. "Stay down!"

dep

Silence. T hen the woman and children are heard hysterically crying.

According to the Daytona Beach News Journal, the couple had four daughters, ages 7, 5, 4 and 1,
and Alquisiras, a roofer, was the family's sole provider.

T he unidentified man on the steps who was wearing the shirt says, "T hat's messed up, man!"

"I didn't want to!" yells the deputy. "He grabbed my T aser, man. I'm freaking out right now, too."

You hear the deputy's heavy breathing. "Goddammit!"

"Why, man? Why," yells the other man.

"I didn't want to do it! He forced my hand! I didn't want to do this!" answers Watson.

When paramedics arrived, Alquisiras was pronounced dead, according to the Volusia sheriff's
office.

Volusia County Sheriff Mike Chitwood said later on T witter: "I'm sorry for the pain the family is
feeling but I'm also thanking God that our deputy is OK. T here were several different potentially
tragic outcomes to this call & there's no doubt in my mind that the deputy's intervention spared
the female victim from further domestic violence."

When members of the community asked the sheriff on social media why the deputy had no
backup, he explained why on Facebook:

"Seville is a rural unincorporated community with a Census population of less than 700 people. T he
reality has always been that fewer deputies are available to immediately respond to a call in Seville
than in Deltona, for example, where population density and call volume are high. T he video of
Friday's incident is a clear illustration of that reality."

T he post adds that the Florida Department of Law Enforcement is conducting an investigation, and
the deputy is on administrative leave, which is "standard."

Chitwood says he stands by the deputy "100 percent."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Miami Herald

 