Police: Shooting suspect ‘clearly on a mission - Daily Messenger
(Canandaigua, NY) - October 11, 2018 - page A3
October 11, 2018 | Daily Messenger (Canandaigua, NY) | Daily Messenger news partner, News 10NBC | Article
| Page A3

ROCHEST ER — A suspect is dead after police say he shot three people, one fatally, in the city of
Rochester.

Before he was shot and killed, police said, 47-year-old Terrell B lake
he targeted family members over a domestic dispute.

T errell B lake was “clearly on a mission” as

Police say he had made earlier threats that he was going to kill his family.

At 9:41 a.m., police say Blake went to the home of his 28-year-old ex-wife on Post Avenue and
shot and killed her. Police say he also shot a 25-year-old man who was in the home. He was in
critical but stable condition Wednesday evening.

Around 10:20 a.m., a 20-year-old male was shot on Francis Street. His injuries were not critical.
T hat 20-year-old male later identified the shooter as his father.

Officers chased Blake, who was seen driving a U-Haul truck recklessly through the city. Multiple
officers fired at Blake after he began shooting, ultimately ending his life.

T he Rochester Police Department had not release the victims’ names as of Wednesday evening,
pending notification of their relatives.

Gary Holmes was saddened to hear about what happened Wednesday morning, just two doors
away from where he lives on Post Avenue, but not necessarily shocked.

He said one of the couples who lived in the house, where two people were shot Wednesday
morning, had been fighting. Holmes said it was about relationship stuff — and said things seemed
to take a turn for the worse Tuesday night.

“Last night, we heard an argument ... it must have been about five people out there,” said Holmes.
“T hen, I heard gun shots. It must have been between 11:30, 12 o’clock.”

Neighbors weren’t sure who lived in the house, but Holmes says there were problems at the old
address.

“T hey’ve been arguing, they’ve been fussing. T here has been several issues back and forth with
them through the years. When they stayed across the street, police were called there quite often,”
Holmes said

Carol, a neighbor who didn’t want to be identified, heard a man screaming for help Wednesday
morning.

“... So I called 911 and I got to the door and I saw a young man sitting in the doorway over there
saying ‘I’m bleeding. I’ve been shot.’ I called 911,” she said as she began to cry about what she
witnessed.

She too has heard the fights. It stands out, she said, on a street like Post Avenue that’s generally
quiet.

“T here are the arguments and whatnot, but nothing violent,” she said.

At least, not until now.

“T he kids are the ones that are going to suffer from this. Knowing that one of their parents or
both of their parents are no longer here,” said Holmes.

Copyrig ht 2018 Daily Messeng er. All Rights Reserved.

 