Forum for City Council candidates centers on crime - Danville Register
& Bee (VA) - April 10, 2018
April 10, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | ​John Crane

Violent crime, Sunday's officer-involved fatal shooting of a young black man, and relations
between the police department and the community dominated a Danville City Council candidate
forum Tuesday night.

T he body-camera video of the shooting that killed 25-year-old Juan Markee Jones
Juan Markee Jones , which was
released by Danville Police Chief Scott Booth on T uesday, came up during the forum at Alpha &
Omega Solid Foundation Church of Worship on Kemper Road in Danville.

"I watched that video," said City Council candidate Sheila Baynes. "It moved me to the bottom of
my heart. I felt for that family."

Five candidates are vying for four seats on council. Vice Mayor Alonzo Jones, Gary Miller and James
Buckner are running for re-election. Baynes and former councilman Adam T omer are also running.
Mayor John Gilstrap, whose seat is also up for grabs, is not seeking re-election.

T he forum was moderated by Jessica Robinson of StarNews. T he second half of the three-hour
forum included Danville School Board candidates.

T he city has a new police chief and everyone must give him a chance, Baynes pointed out.

"We need to give him an opportunity to see if he can make change," she said. Booth replaced Philip
Broadfoot, who retired at the end of 2017.

Alonzo Jones, when asked, said he did not support all of the police department's initiatives to fight
crime "because we're not there yet." He had good words for the new police chief.

"He's trying to be transparent," Jones said. "He's trying to be open."

He pointed out that Booth talked to citizens in the middle of Monday's protest to try to keep
people calm.

"We have a good police chief, we really do," Jones said.

Adding that "we can't do things the same old way," Jones said people in the community are hurting.

Miller said he disagreed with Jones regarding the police force.

"We have a good police force, we have a good police chief," Miller said.

Jones told Miller he never said he didn't support police officers, but reiterated that he liked some of
the department's initiatives but not all of them.

It is important that community members help out the city's police officers, Miller said.

"If we don't help the police, we never get anybody apprehended," he said, adding that some
murders are not solved because witnesses won't talk.

"We need to build trust," Miller said. "If we don't control the crime, economic development will go
down the tubes."

Buckner also praised Booth and said he would do great things in the community.

"He believes strongly in transparency, which is something we haven't had in a long time," Buckner
said.

City Council's job is to keep Danville's citizens safe, Buckner said.

"Everything that happens in this community deeply affects every one of us," he said. "My prayer is
that everybody's safe, that we won't get a terrible message in the middle of the night."

T omer said he got to know Broadfoot, the previous police chief, during his previous stint on City
Council.

"I thought there was a change needed," T omer said. "Back in 2014, change was kind of slow to
move. I definitely think the city manager and the City Council are going in the right direction."

T he only way to fight the violent crime problem is through trust; police need to trust the
community and the community needs to trust the police, T omer said.

"If we do not control the violent crime, the city will not flourish," he said, adding that it affects
economic development, the River District, and schools.

"It's a cancer we have to root out," T omer said.

Council members also praised Booth for getting out in the community and knocking on doors to
talk to citizens.

Community engagement with the department is needed, Jones said. He and Gilstrap went to Juan
Juan
M arkee Jones's mother's house.
M arkee Jones

"It hurts my heart," Jones said of the fatal shooting.

Building relationships among citizens and with police is important, Baynes said. Citizens need to be
able to go to the police chief with any concerns they may have, she said.

Police should treat community members with respect and dignity, and community members

should treat police with respect and dignity, Baynes said.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 