Kudos to the Danville PD for openness - News & Advance, The
(Lynchburg, VA) - April 13, 2018
April 13, 2018 | News & Advance, The (Lynchburg, VA) | Staff Writer

T hese days, trust in public institutions is at all-time lows. If only the Pentagon and President Lyndon
Johnson had been truthful about what was happening on the ground in Vietnam. If only President
Richard Nixon had just immediately 'fessed up the third rate burglary that was Watergate instead
of trying to cover it up. If only Facebook and Mark Zuckerberg were straightforward with its 2
billion users about what the company did with their personal data.

If only. T he one thing common to all these scenarios is a lack of transparency with the public.

Our neighbors to the south in Danville have a police department and a chief keenly aware of how
important public transparency is for law enforcement agencies.

Since January, Chief Scott Booth has handled two fatal, officer-involved shootings, and done so in
an exemplary manner.

On Jan. 7 and on April 8, Danville police officers responded to two 9-1-1 calls from women reporting
serious threats of domestic violence. In the Jan. 7 incident, officers arrived at the home and, after
calling on the man to come out, were greeted with a volley of gunfire. T he officer returned fire,
killing the man. On April 8, in another domestic call, officers arrived on the scene and saw the
female caller in a car with Juan Markee Jones
off, getting out of his car at the end of the cul-de-sac and turning suddenly toward officers, who
fatally shot him, believing he had a gun.

Juan Markee Jones . After telling him to exit the vehicle, instead he drove

Within three days of the Jan. 7 incident, Chief Booth released the name of the officer who fired the
fatal shots, revealing him to be a veteran law enforcement officer with a spotless record. Within
two days of the April 8 shooting, Booth released bodycam footage; one day later, he released the
names of the two officers involved.

Contrast how the Lynchburg Police Department handles officer-involved shootings, and you'll see
a vastly different approach.

It has been 55 days since Lynchburg Police Department officers driving down Link Road noticed a
home's front door partially open at 1:15 a.m. on a Saturday morning, stopped and wound up
shooting the homeowner in the leg. And it has been 158 days since LPD officers shot and killed a
suicidal, knife-wielding woman on Triangle Place after an hours-long standoff.

Fifty-five days and 158 days, respectively, of silence from the LPD as to exactly what happened ,
who the officers involved in the shooting were and whether body-cam footage of the incidents
exists.

T hat simply is unacceptable. In both cases, the Virginia State Police is conducting an investigation
and special prosecutors have been appointed to handle them. (Virginia Beach for the T riangle
Place killing and Alexandria for the Link Road shooting). And in both cases, precious little
information has been forthcoming from LPD.

Citing the probe, city leadership will not divulge any additional information, including the names of
the officers involved, their service records or what may be available through body-cam footage.
We understand and support the need for an outside investigation, as well as the need to with hold
some details until it's complete. But we part ways with city leadership to shut information down
completely.

We believe it is in the city's best interest to have law enforcement that is open and transparent with
the public it serves. We support the approach in Danville, and urge LPD Chief Rau lDiaz and city
leadership to also opt for transparency: Release the officers' names and service histories.
Openness and trust go hand in hand.

© Copyrig ht 2018, The News & Advance, Lynchburg , VA

 