The Latest: Prosecutors identify man who killed US - Associated Press
State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA) - January 19, 2018
January 19, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA)

HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) — T he Latest on the killing of a deputy U.S. marshal in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania (all times local):

Prosecutors have identified a 31-year-old Philadelphia man as the shooter who killed a U.S. marshal
before being shot to death by police.

T he U.S. attorney's office says Kevin Sturg is
fugitive task force showed up at a home in Harrisburg early Thursday to arrest a woman who lives
there.

Kevin Sturg is  had two active warrants from Philadelphia when a

Authorities say Sturgis was wanted for not showing up to be sentenced on a gun charge and failing
to appear at a probation violation hearing.

Investigators say they were arresting the woman when Sturgis began firing from the second floor,
killing 45-year-old Christopher David Hill and wounding a York City police officer.

Officials say Sturgis subsequently exited the home and was killed by police as he shot at officers.

5:50 p.m.

___

2 p.m.

Authorities say that a man who fatally shot a U.S. marshal serving a warrant in Pennsylvania's
capital city was killed by return fire.

U.S. Attorney David Freed revealed the details about the fatal Thursday morning encounter in
Harrisburg. He didn't identify the dead suspect.

T he slain marshal was 45-year-old Christopher David Hill, an 11-year veteran of the agency. He
died at a hospital in Harrisburg.

Authorities say Hill was part of a team of officers serving a warrant for the arrest of a woman
wanted by Harrisburg police for making threats. Freed says the man in the home opened fire after
the fugitive, Shayla Lynette T owles Pierce, was handcuffed.

Authorities say a York City police officer had non-life-threatening injuries.

T he service says Hill is an Army veteran who is survived by his wife and two children.

T he U.S. Marshals Service says an agent who was fatally shot while serving an arrest warrant in
Pennsylvania's capital city was an 11-year veteran of the agency.

T he U.S. Marshals Service says 45-year-old Christopher David Hill died Thursday morning at a
hospital in Harrisburg.

Authorities say Hill was part of a team serving a warrant for the arrest of a fugitive suspect wanted
by Harrisburg police for making threats. T he marshals service says a man in the home opened fire,
hitting Hill and two other officers.

T he marshals service identified the suspect as Shayla Lynette T owles Pierce. T he fate of Pierce
and the man who shot at the officers was unclear.

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo has said there is no current danger to the public.
More information was expected at an afternoon news conference.

T he service says Hill is an Army veteran who is survived by his wife and two children.

T he mayor of Harrisburg says a U.S. marshal is dead after being shot while serving an arrest
warrant in Pennsylvania's capital city.

Mayor Eric Papenfuse says two other officers were wounded in the Thursday morning shooting,
including one from Harrisburg.

T he York City Police Department says one of its officers had non-life threatening injuries.

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo says the officers were part of a U.S. Marshals
Service task force and multiple agencies were involved.

He says there is no current danger to the public. Papenfuse says the suspect was critically
wounded by officers.

He says more information will be given at an afternoon news conference.

____

1:45 p.m.

____

10:30 a.m.

___

10 a.m.

An official says multiple law enforcement officers have been injured while serving an arrest warrant
in Harrisburg and shots were fired.

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo says the officers were taken by ambulance to a
hospital T hursday. He didn't say how they had been injured or specify what types of injuries they
had.

T here were reports of shots fired just after 6 a.m. in the area.

Chardo says the officers were part of a U.S. Marshals Service task force and multiple agencies
were involved.

He says there is no current danger to the public. He says the suspect is not at large, but wouldn't
say if that person is in custody or what that person's condition is.

He says more information will be given at an afternoon news conference.

___

8:50 a.m.

An official says multiple police officers have been injured while serving an early morning warrant in
Pennsylvania's capital city.

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo tells Pennlive.com the officers were taken by
ambulance to a Harrisburg hospital T hursday. He didn't say how they had been injured or specify
what types of injuries they had.

T here were reports of shots fired before 6:30 a.m. in the area.

Chardo says one person was shot by police but couldn't speak about that person's condition.

Officers clearing the residence say the shooting suspect was inside, but there's no word on that
person's condition or whether that person is in custody.

No other information is available.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 