Marshals task force rebuilds Marshals A year - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - January 22, 2019 - page 001
January 22, 2019 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Christine Vendel cvendel@pennlive.com | Page 001

When a U.S. marshals task force served a warrant for Shayla Pierce at her Harrisburg home last
year, they were at a disadvantage.

T he marshals didn’t know her boyfriend Kevin Sturg is
for shooting a pregnant woman in Philadelphia.

Kevin Sturg is  was hiding upstairs, or that he was wanted

T hey didn’t know he’d apparently shot and wounded two men in Harrisburg. Or that the couple had
more than 1.5 pounds of marijuana and two ounces of PCP stashed in the house in the 1800 block
of Mulberry Street.

Members of the task force only knew that Pierce had an outstanding warrant for pointing a gun at
her neighbor and that a fugitive named “King” from Philly might be staying with her.

With that limited information, the task force members knocked on Pierce’s door in the early hours
of Jan. 18, 2018, according to officials who provided new details to PennLive on the one-year
anniversary of that fateful raid.

“T hey proceeded to the residence to apprehend her and to decipher whether or not someone by
the nickname of King frequented her place,” said U.S. Marshal Martin Pane.

After police handcuffed Pierce in her living room, they tried to call her children downstairs and
asked her if she knew someone named “King.” T hat’s when a man at the top of the stairs shouted,
“Are you

looking for me?” and started a gunfight that left him and deputy U.S. marshal Christopher Hill dead
and two officers wounded.

T he new details answer some lingering questions about who was the target of the raid. T he
questions arose because of Sturgis’ lengthy criminal record and fugitive status compared to
Pierce’s criminal record and the fact that she had appeared in court twice in the weeks prior to the
raid.

In the end, both Sturgis (whose nickname is King) and Pierce were targets of the raid, but Pierce
was the initial target since officers did not even know Sturgis’ real name at the time.

Pierce pleaded guilty to the gun charge from her warrant last August and was released for time
served, but with eight new drug charges hanging over hear head. Her next court date is in March.
She likely will face no charges related to the death of deputy Hill.

A time of healing

Hill’s death represented the first line-of-duty death for the Middle District of Pennsylvania’s
marshals service in its 118-year history. It took time for task force members to recover from not
only losing their friend, but witnessing it.

“Deputy Hill was an outstanding employee who participated in many agency initiatives throughout
the country and abroad,” Pane said. “T o that end, he was known and highly respected by many
within this agency. So the impact and the loss of Chris has been felt by many.”

T he agency provided counseling and other resources to employees after the incident and again
Friday, on the one-year anniversary.

T wo of the full-time deputies on the task force retired last year after the raid. Between grieving,
healing and training new members, the productivity of the task force fell below its normal level.

T he middle district task force typically serves about 450 warrants per year. But that figure dropped
to 350 last year, Pane said.

“Anytime you have a line of duty death,” Pane said, “it takes time to heal and process the event.”

Harrisburg Police Commissioner Thomas Carter, however, said he didn’t notice any lull in activity.
He said the task force responded every time he called last year.

“T he incident left a permanent scar on that unit,” Carter said. “But they’re trained to overcome
extreme difficulties, so the unit will continue to provide the citizens of Dauphin County and the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania the great service they always have.”

Pane said the unit is back up to full speed for this fiscal year and expected to serve about 450
warrants.

T hose warrants reflect just a portion of the warrants out there that need to be served, Pane
noted.

“Unfortunately throughout every district in the nation, there is a consistent violent felony backlog,
and I can assure you there is far in excess of 450,” he said. “But if you get me more resources, I’ll
get you more arrests.”

‘T hey train all the time’

After every death involving a marshals task force member, the agency does a detailed review.

“An examination of the event takes place and a briefing and review occurs with senior leadership in
Washington, D.C.,” Pane said.

T he head of the agency’s training academy takes part in these reviews, Pane said, and
incorporates information into additional training, and enhanced training for entering buildings. T he

training leader also reviews equipment standards such as ballistic shields, helmets, vests and
ammunition, Pane said.

So what came out of the review of the deadly raid in Harrisburg?

If there were changes in any procedures, policies, training or equipment in the wake of Hill’s death,
Pane said he could not divulge it because it could provide a tactical advantage to fugitives.

“And we don’t want to do that,” Pane said.

But after all the detailed reviews, Pane described the death of Hill as a “tragic accident,” indicating
that little could have been done to predict or prevent the tragedy.

Carter said he was briefed on the incident and feels comfortable continuing to assign a member of
his department full-time to the task force.

“T hey train all the time,” he said. “T hey’re experts at serving warrants and going after violent
fugitives. What happened was just an unforeseen tragedy. Sometimes things just happen.”

‘T end to be desperate’

In last year’s raid, Sturgis fired the first round from upstairs that hit a York officer. T ask force
members in the living room fired back. Some of the officers’ bullets penetrated the wall behind
Sturgis and struck Hill, who was on the other side of that wall. One of the rounds hit Hill near his
armpit area, one of the small areas not covered by his bullet resistant vest.

T he fact that Sturgis came out firing is not uncommon for violent felony fugitives, Pane said.

“T he difference is they know they’re wanted,” Pane said. “T hey know they’re going away for a long
time, and perhaps facing the death penalty. T hey tend to be desperate and take overt action.”

T hat could be why the United States Marshals Service loses more federal law enforcement officers
in one year than other federal law enforcement agencies combined.

Sturgis was wanted for skipping bail and failing to appear at his Jan. 5, 2017, sentencing in
Philadelphia for a 2014 gun crime, where he was likely facing 5 to 10 years in prison. A prosecutor
was pushing for serious jail time, noting that Sturgis had been arrested 11 times and had six
convictions, not including a rape case as a juvenile.

He had been convicted in October 2016 of illegally carrying a gun in his car.

Less than one month after that conviction, while he was out on $1 bond, Philadelphia police allege
Sturgis nearly killed his pregnant girlfriend.

Responding officers found a 25-year-old woman with two gunshot wounds to her right arm and
one to her chest. She was critically wounded, but survived. Police did not release any information
about the status of the baby.

T he fugitive task force in Harrisburg, however, didn’t know about his criminal history when they
knocked on Pierce’s door. T hey only had the nickname of King, which is hardly unique in
Philadelphia.

After the deadly raid, Harrisburg police got information that “King,” was responsible for a brazen
double shooting in broad daylight October 2017 that injured two men who were in a pickup truck
behind a barber shop near 17th and Market streets. T he gun used in the double-shooting was a
.45-caliber, just like the gun Sturgis used in the deadly marshals raid.

Harrisburg officer retires

Harrisburg Officer Jeff Cook was shot in the chest during the raid last year as a member of the task
force. He had planned to retire in December 2017, but stayed on longer because there weren’t
enough officers to fill his position on the task force.

Cook agreed to stay on until the end of January.

T he shooting that could have ended his life happened that month. He was shot when Sturgis
barged out the front door after a York officer and Hill were shot inside. A bullet struck Cook in the
chest, but a bullet-resistant vest with a protective plate saved his life.

Cook said he didn’t want to retire immediately after the shooting. He wanted to see if he could still
perform the job.

Cook was cleared for duty two months later, and returned to the task force. He helped with their
assignments until June 1.

T he police department meanwhile bought more bullet-resistant plates and carriers for additional
officers to wear, to better protect them. Previously, only officers assigned to the county tactical
team or marshal’s task force had access to the expensive vests.

T he department won a $145,000 county gaming grant to purchase 10 vests, which will be donned
for high-risk assignments. A group of emergency department nurses at UPMC Pinnacle Harrisburg
also staged a 5K run that raised $20,000 to help buy even more.

Meanwhile, the York officer, Kyle Pitts, who was shot in the right arm suffered nerve damage that
required him to learn how to consistently shoot with his left hand. Pitts recently returned to duty,
according to a report in the York Daily Record.

Copyrig ht, 2019, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 