Slain Deputy marshal CALLED ‘cream of crop - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - January 19, 2018 - page M1
January 19, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Christine Vendel | Page M1

HARRISBURG

Christopher Hill served in Afghanistan, worked in Washington, D.C., and rose to the top of the U.S.
Marshal’s Service, according to the leader of the agency.

But Hill, 45, was felled by a gunman’s bullets Thursday as he helped to serve an arrest warrant in
the city of Harrisburg.

He is survived by a wife and two young children.

Hill had been working out of the Harrisburg office since 2009 after a stint in Washington, D.C. T he
following year, he was assigned to the prestigious “special operations group,” with a focus on
fugitive apprehension, according to U.S. Marshal Martin Pane. T he group members represent the
top one percent of deputy marshals, he said.

T he group is highly trained, and its members would have been prepared for any assignment or
situation, Pane said.

“You don’t get into that unit unless you have special skill sets,” Pane said at a news conference
T hursday, eight hours after Hill was mortally wounded. “T actically...you probably would not find a
better tactical operator in the state of Pennsylvania.”

Pane called Hill: “the cream of the crop.”

Hill was inside a house in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street about 6:10 a.m. Thursday with two
other officers and they had arrested a woman on an outstanding arrest warrant. T he woman,
Shayla Lynette T owles Pierce, was in handcuffs.

T hat’s when bullets suddenly rained down from the second-floor, from the top of the stairs, hitting
Hill and another member of the task force, Kyle Pitts, officials said.

Pitts is also an officer of the York City Police Department. Pitts was shot in the right elbow. He
underwent surgery on T hursday, and is expected to survive.

Additional officers opened the back door and pulled out their wounded comrades.

T he gunman, identified by police as Kevin Sturg is
fired at officers as he barged out the front door, according to officials. A Harrisburg officer struck
by a projectile that hit his bullet-resistant vest fired back at Sturgis, killing him.

Kevin Sturg is , 31, of Philadelphia, then ran downstairs and

Pierce, 30, was wanted by the Harrisburg Bureau of Police on charges of illegal possession of a
firearm, a third degree felony, simple assault and terroristic threats.

U.S. Attorney David Freed said the gunman, Sturgis, was wanted on one warrant for failure to
appear for sentencing on a charge of persons not to possess firearms, a second-degree felony.

He also was wanted on a second warrant for failure to appear for a violation of probation hearing
on original charges of receiving stolen property, unlawful possession of a controlled substance and
unauthorized use of a motor vehicle.

Sturgis also had a juvenile adjudication (analogous to a criminal conviction in adult court) on a
charge of rape, according to the U.S. attorney’s office.

T he nature of Sturgis’ relationship with Pierce was unknown T hursday. She was committed to
Dauphin County Prison in lieu of $200,000 bail.

As part of Hill’s career, Hill commanded a group of marshals involved in the drawn-out manhunt
through dense forests for Eric Frein in 2014 after Frein killed a state trooper and wounded a
second trooper in an ambush.

Hill also was a firearms instructor and trained in explosives used to help distract suspects as
officers enter buildings, which is known as “breaching.”

Pane said Hill won the U.S. Marshals Service Distinguished Group award for “significant
contributions” in an effort to establish a judicial system in Afghanistan.

“T his is a man who served his country over there with the U.S. Marshals Service, helping to stand
up justice,” Pane said. “But this morning, Deputy Hill made the ultimate sacrifice.”

Hill previously served in the Army from 1993 to 1996, including an overseas assignment to
Afghanistan.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 