Questions remain after fatal shootout - Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg,
PA) - January 25, 2018 - page A12
January 25, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Christine Vendel | Page A12

DEPUT Y U.S. MARSHAL SLAIN

Kevin Sturg is
Kevin Sturg is  first fired upon police officers from a second-floor perch inside his girlfriend’s home,
then barged out the front door, gun in hand, where he continued to fire at officers, according to
officials and neighbors.

Amid the deadly assault against the U.S. marshal’s task force at a home in Harrisburg last week,
the rest of the team stayed focused. While some officers tended to the wounded, others refused
to let the gunman get away.

Despite the danger, officers answered Sturgis’ gunfire in the middle of the street with their own
and eventually tracked him down in the dark behind a parked car where he was trying to hide.

An officer shouted, “Don’t move,” according to one neighbor, then the officer fired a series of
gunshots at Sturgis, ending the violent ordeal. Sturgis died in the street.

A deputy U.S. marshal also died and two officers were hit, one wounded.

A week after the tragedy, many new details have been revealed but just as many details remain
unknown.

How many times was the gunman shot?

An autopsy of the gunman, Kevin Sturg is

Kevin Sturg is , 31, of Philadelphia, was completed T uesday.

T he Dauphin County coroner’s office confirmed that Sturgis died from “multiple gunshot wounds
to the body,” according to a statement. T he manner of death has been ruled homicide.

T he statement did not say exactly how many times he was shot or where the wounds were on his
body.

How was Deputy Hill fatally injured when he was wearing a bullet-resistant vest?

Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher D. Hill was wearing a bullet-resistant vest, along with every
member of the team that served the arrest warrant in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street.

But the vests don’t cover all areas of an officer’s body and in Hill’s case, a bullet was able to
penetrate a gap near his armhole when gunfire rained down from the second-floor. T he bullet
penetrated his chest.

Jeff Cook, a Harrisburg officer struck by a bullet to his chest outside the home, however, survived
being shot.

“He pointed to me where the bullet struck on his body armor,” said District Attorney Fran Chardo,
“and it looked like it would have been a fatal wound if he had not had on body armor. Unfortunately
with Chris Hill, the body armor, it isn’t going to cover every area of your body, so it did not save
him.”

T he officers with the task force wear vests reinforced with steel plates to boost their effectiveness
beyond what patrol officers typically wear, because of the high-risk nature of tracking fugitives and
serving warrants.

When was the last time a deputy marshal was killed in Pennsylvania?

Hill arguably is the first trained deputy marshal killed in the history of Pennsylvania.

T here was one previous marshal killed in 1851, but he was a slave-owner from Maryland who was
deputized two days before his death to be able to track down runaway slaves that he believed
belonged to him.

T he former slaves were hiding in an abolitionist town in Lancaster County. Edward Gorsuch was
with a posse that unsuccessfully tried to retrieve them.

Gorsuch’s name is listed on the U.S. marshal’s Roll Call page as the third deputy to be killed in
marshal service history.

Across the country, more than 200 deputy marshals have been killed in the line of duty since 1794,
including one last year in New York, one in 2016 in Georgia and two in 2015.

How many fugitive task force members served the warrant in Harrisburg?

At a news conference eight hours after the shootout on Mulberry Street, officials said they
believed there were seven task force members serving the warrant against Shayla T owles Pierce.

But since then, officials have corrected the record to note that nine task force members were part
of the warrant service.

T he confusion arose because seven members of the task force came from local and state
agencies, and were temporarily assigned to the task force. Meanwhile two members, including Hill,
worked directly for the marshal’s service.

Who’s on the U.S. Marshal’s task force?

Various state and local agencies have the choice to donate the time of officers to a U.S. Marshal’s
task force.

T he arrangement is mutually beneficial, according to officials. T he marshal’s service, which
employs 4,000 federal officers across the country, benefits from the boost in manpower. T he local
agencies, meanwhile, get valuable experience, and access to marshal service assets and authority.

Some agencies, like Harrisburg, donate an officer full-time to the task force, while other agencies
might only donate their officer for a certain number of hours per week.

T he Harrisburg officer assigned to the task force, Jeff Cook, is in his sixth year working for the
marshal’s service during three different stints.

Other agencies that participate in the task force include: York, Lancaster, Lower Paxton,
Pennsylvania State Police, the Dauphin County sheriff’s office, and county and state parole offices.

T he Middle District’s marshal’s task force travels all across the region serving high-risk warrants
for fugitives. It’s one of many marshal task forces across the state and country.

Why was the fugitive task force in Harrisburg?

Warrants typically tackled by the task force involve felonies, with those involving violence and
children getting the highest priority, according to Deputy Marshal Bill Pugh, an agency spokesman.

But Pugh acknowledged that some cities have lots of felony warrants for violent crimes and the
marshal’s service isn’t called out for most of them. Instead, the task force specializes in suspects
who “have fled the jurisdictional boundary,” Pugh said.

T hat’s typically when local agencies reach out to the marshal’s service for help, Pugh said.

If someone suspected of a violent crime in Harrisburg was believed to be hiding in Philadelphia,
Pugh said as an example, it makes sense to call in the marshals since they have arrest powers
across city and state borders.

While the warrant in Harrisburg was ostensibly for Pierce for a gun violation and two
misdemeanors, her boyfriend who frequently visited from Philadelphia appeared to be a more likely
target of a marshal’s operation.

Pugh declined to comment about that when asked, but noted that the full story behind the raid
would eventually come out at the conclusion of the investigation.

Did the wounded officers return fire inside the house?

When PennLive toured the home where the shooting occurred, a repairman was patching holes in
the wall and the home was in disarray after officers thoroughly searched the property.

When officials gave a general rundown of the fatal shooting, they did not indicate whether Hill or
York Officer Kyle Pitts returned fire inside when Kevin Sturg is

Kevin Sturg is  first opened fire at them.

Instead, U.S. Attorney David Freed said the officers were hit and then “members of task force

removed the wounded officers from the residence and established a perimeter around the
residence.”

T he suspect continued firing as members of the task force dragged their fallen comrades out of
the house, according to reports.

PennLive was allowed into the home after police finished collecting evidence the next day and the
only visible bullet holes were concentrated in the stairwell.

Several bullets penetrated through the back of the stairwell, into a dining room, while some holes in
the stairwell punctured the wall at the bottom of the stairs.

A statement from Harrisburg police Monday night said Hill was injured “during the exchange of
gunfire,” but the exact sequence of events was still unknown as investigators were just starting to
interview officers.

Officers are typically allowed several days after a police shooting before providing a full statement.

How old were the children inside the home?

Pierce has two sons, ages 13 and 9, and both were inside when the task force arrived shortly after
6 a.m.

Officials said Pierce and her children appeared at the top of the stairs and that Pierce was then
taken into custody. Pierce and the children then presumably came downstairs, where Pierce was
placed into handcuffs, because officials said the officers then were suddenly surprised by the sound
of gunfire “that appeared emanate from the second floor.”

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo noted the recklessness of Sturgis opening fire with
children in the home.

“He was firing indiscriminately,” Chardo said. “He’s firing at people he knows are law enforcement
officers and firing with children close to the line of fire.”

After the ambulances ferried away the wounded officers, a neighbor saw an officer carry Pierce
out the back door. T hen neighbor also saw Pierce’s teenage son walk out the back door into the
snow without shoes. His younger brother also was escorted out the back.

T hey boys are now staying with a grandparent, according to neighbors.

How many officers fired shots?

Multiple officers fired at Sturgis after he opened fire at them, Chardo said, but no one has publicly
confirmed the number of officers or who may have fired the fatal shots against Sturgis.

T hat officer, according to some neighbors, bravely marched down the darkened sidewalk amid the
chaos using a flashlight to find Sturgis hiding behind a parked car.

“A limited number of officers fired,” Chardo said, noting that the fatal shots are something that
could be determined through testing.”

Harrisburg Mayor Eric Papenfuse previously said his city’s officer was among those who fired at
the gunman after being shot in the vest.

T he officers’ exact positions during the warrant aren’t publicly known, but neighbors reported
seeing three officers in front of the house. One officer was on each side of the front of the house
and a third was standing in the middle of the street.

Hill and York Officer Kyle Pitts were inside the house and the exact location of the other four
officers are unknown. But it’s likely at least two were positioned behind the house.

How did neighbors react during the shooting?

Some neighbors were asleep and rousted by the sound of gunfire, while other neighbors were
newly awake, preparing coffee when the first shots rang out about 6:10 a.m.

Diane Stinson said she heard three gunshots from inside the home, then she ran onto her front
porch to see what was going on, without being terribly concerned for her own safety.

She said she saw the gunman run out the front of the house and down the street. It was dark
outside so she couldn’t make out exactly what was happening. She saw an officer crouched across
the street, saying into his microphone, “Officer down. Officer down.” T hat officer then darted back
to her side of the street and eventually fired over a parked PT  Cruiser to a location where Stinson
later determined the gunman was apparently hiding.

Another neighbor closer to the street shootout said the gunman came out the front door, pointed
a gun at an officer in the street and dove off the front porch.

T he gunman rolled in between parked cars and occasionally popped up to fire at officers.

T he gunman then ran down the street as officers fired at him.

Another neighbor looked out her back window to see officers furiously trying to save Hill’s life on
the back porch. Another wounded officer was in the backyard. She grabbed her grandchildren and
hid in her basement after she heard a volley of gunshots. She didn’t want to risk anyone getting hit
with errant gunfire.

When police asked her to evacuate her home later, she said the street was littered with shell
casings, making it hard to get to her parked car without stepping on them.

What do we know about the gunman?

Sturgis lived in Philadelphia but he traveled frequently to Harrisburg in recent years. He had a 2013
arrest for drug charges in Harrisburg and neighbors said he had spent much of the past five

months on their block, staying with Pierce.

Sturgis was kind to many neighbors on Mulberry Street, even bringing a candle and card to one
neighbor on her birthday along with Pierce. T he couple serenaded her with the birthday song.

T he gunman who killed the officer “wasn’t the man we knew,” the neighbor said, declining to
provide her name.

She said Sturgis’ behavior on the block gave them no indication of his criminal record or potential
for violence. Instead, Sturgis made a good impression on them, and Pierce’s landlord, who had also
met him.

Sturgis had bounced in and out of jail for some of his early offenses but was facing a longer prison
sentence for his most recent conviction for illegal possession of a handgun.

He had been dodging authorities on that conviction for a full year.

In the gun case, which dated to April 8, 2014, city police officers stopped a car for a stop sign
violation. Officers said they saw the driver, later identified as Sturgis, moving something with his
right hand.

T hey recovered a .40-caliber semi-automatic handgun from the car’s center console.

According to a prosecutor’s memo about the case: Philly prosecutors wanted Common Pleas
Judge Giovanni Campbell to sentence Sturgis to five to 10 years in the state prison system.

And that was before the task force would have potentially arrested him with a gun again in
Harrisburg last week.

“T he mere act of him picking up the gun was in and of itself a felony,” Chardo said. “Even his
juvenile adjudication for rape made him ineligible to even carry or touch a firearm ... so this is a
person who should have never ever had a gun.”

How are the wounded officers recovering?

York City Police Officer Kyle Pitts has been released from Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical
Center, according to a CBS21 report. Pitt was shot in the elbow and underwent two surgeries. He
is facing additional rehabilitation and procedures after the shooting.

A GoFundMe campaign sought to raise $5,000 for Pitts and has raised more than $9,000 as of
Wednesday. T he fundraiser was started so Pitts and his family don’t have to worry while he
recovers. His wife, T iffany, is a detective with York police. T he extra money raised will be donated
to Hill’s family.

Harrisburg Officer Jeff Cook was examined at a hospital after he was struck on his bullet-resistant
vest, but did not need to be admitted. He remains on paid administrative leave, which is the
standard procedure for officers involved in police shootings.

Cook will be able to return to work once the district attorney rules on the whether the shooting of
Sturgis was justified. Chardo noted, however, that “on its face it appears to be a justified use of
force.” Cook also would need to undergo medical and psychological evaluations before returning
to work, which is standard procedure.

Will the woman at the center of the arrest warrant face new charges?

It seems unlikely that Pierce, 30, would be charged in connection with the murder of Hill, Chardo
told WIT F’s Scott LaMar. But she could face additional charges for other crimes, he said.

Pierce already was in handcuffs before Sturgis started shooting at police, he said.

“She certainly wouldn’t be an accomplice to the murder,” he told LaMar on Smart T alk. “You would
have to have, in order to be an accomplice to murder, you’d have to have the shared intent.

“Whether or not she’s guilty of other crimes, that’s an ongoing investigation,” Chardo said, “And it
is ongoing and we’re working diligently toward that.”

T he FBI is taking the lead on the criminal investigation while Chardo’s office is focusing on the
details of the police shooting.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 