Gunman still gets blame for death, police say - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - March 4, 2018 - page A22
March 4, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Charles Thompson | Page A22

T ragedy upon tragedy.

T hat summed up the immediate reaction to the news Thursday that the Jan. 18 shooting death of
Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher Hill in Harrisburg was caused by friendly fire from other police on
the scene.

But there was another train of thought, too, at least in law enforcement circles.

And that was, that, even though ballistics tests now show Kevin Sturg is
fugitive who police say opened fire on them during an early morning warrant service — didn’t fire
the shot that killed Hill, those results in no way exonerate Sturgis, or change the grand arc of the
story.

Kevin Sturg is  — the Philadelphia

“It’s a tragedy the way it happened, but Mr. Sturgis started shooting first,” said Harrisburg Police
Chief Thomas Carter. “Due to the fact he instigated the incident, it doesn’t change anything.

“My heart goes out to the Hill family.”

T he point was hammered home in this statement released Thursday by the U.S. Marshals Service:

“On January 18, Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher Hill died in the line of duty in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, while executing an arrest warrant on a female defendant who was wanted by the
Harrisburg Bureau of Police for terroristic threat offenses.

“While executing the warrant, Deputy Hill and his arrest team were fired upon by another subject in
the house — a male, convicted felon who was wanted for attempted murder of his pregnant
girlfriend. During this tragic incident, Deputy Hill was struck by a round that passed through a wall in
the residence.

“Initial indications suggested that one of the shots fired by the assailant had struck and killed
Deputy Hill. T oday, the preliminary FBI forensics and ballistics review indicates that the round which
struck Deputy Hill was fired by a fellow law enforcement officer who was engaged in a gun battle
with the assailant.

“Deputy Hill made the ultimate sacrifice while executing a lawful arrest warrant on a female
suspect wanted for terroristic threats. T hat fact remains,” the statement continues.

“He died a hero while protecting his community from dangerous criminals like the female
defendant and the male assailant who opened fire on his team. T hose facts remain unchanged

too.

“T he results of the FBI’s review do not diminish the heroic acts of Deputy Hill or his team. A
convicted felon opened fire on law enforcement officers and ultimately led to Deputy Hill’s
unfortunate and untimely death. T hose are the facts.

“USMS intends to conduct a thorough review of the official FBI report when it’s received and
determine whether there are any lessons to be learned which may be appropriate to re-emphasize
in training.”

Reached by telephone as the statement was coming out, Hill’s former boss Martin Payne, who
leads the service’s office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, doubled down on Sturgis.

“T he catalyst which led us here is a career convicted felon wanted on multiple warrants — the
most serious of which was for firing six rounds at his pregnant girlfriend, and striking her with three
— who opened fire on law enforcement officers, striking two of them,” Payne said.

Payne’s reference appeared to be to a separate case out of Philadelphia that Sturgis was
apparently a suspect in.

T hat could answer the question about why an elite task force was sent to arrest a woman for a
gun charge and two misdemeanors, especially when she had just appeared in court two weeks
prior to the arrest warrant.

Some of Sturgis’s survivors had a different take.

While also expressing regret over Hill’s death, they said the new findings will be just as important to
Sturgis’s friends and family going forward.

“I’m upset about it,” Jenea Sturgis, Kevin’s widow, told PennLive. “T he whole world thinks he’s a
murderer and he’s the one that killed that officer. Our kids have to see that” the facts show that he
did not kill Hill.

As to the new layer of tragedy?

Payne covered that too T hursday, saying he and his colleagues wanted to thank “the people of the
greater Harrisburg and York communities for their outpouring of support for the Hill family.

“We continue to ask that you keep them in your thoughts and prayers.”

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo said the task force members performed “very well
under extremely stressful circumstances. Deputy Marshal Hill died a hero.

Staff writer Christine Vendel contributed to this report.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 