
 
A 20-year-old Royal Oak man was killed by a police officer who tried to arrest him shortly after he allegedly stabbed

his mother and assaulted his father early Monday, authorities said. 

Royal Oak police confirmed that Cody Reynolds was killed in the shooting just after 3 a.m. at East Hudson and

South Wilson. 

shooting in Royal Oak in as many months. 

It was the second fatal shooting by a police officer in metro Detroit in two days —and the second officer-involved

A 38-year-old Redford man was shot and killed early Sunday by a Dearborn Heights police officer as he walked on

Telegraph Road with a loaded rifle, authorities said. 

At a news conference held at Royal Oak Police headquarters, Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said police were called to a

home in the 1000 block of Hoffman in response to a report of a domestic assault. 

O'Donohue said the 911 caller was Reynolds' mother, who reported she was stabbed by her son and that her son

also struck his father in the head with a guitar. 

house and ordered him to stop. 

One officer responded to the scene, O'Donohue said. That officer encountered Reynolds a few blocks from his

O'Donohue said Reynolds continued to slowly approach the officer and said that he had just stabbed his mother. 

"The officer again told him to stop and get on the ground, once Cody kind of closed the distance a bit, he very

abruptly went down to the ground. Almost immediately upon going to the ground, he got up very aggressively and

charged at the officer as the officer was backing up from him. The officer fired at Cody, striking him," O'Donohue

said. 

The officer administered first aid, the Royal Oak Fire Department responded and O'Donohue said Reynolds was

transported to Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak where he was pronounced dead. Reynolds' parents were also taken

to Beaumont for treatment of non-life threatening injuries. 

O'Donohue said that according to preliminary information investigators found four bullet casings at the scene. 

O'Donohue said Reynolds was not armed during his encounter with the officer, but went on to say there was no

way the officer could have known that. 

Reynolds was on probation for a 2017 conviction of operating a vehicle while intoxicated, causing serious injury.

O'Donohue said Reynolds was driving the wrong way on Woodward when he struck another vehicle. 

He said the officer involved will be placed on administrative leave. The Oakland County Sheriff's Office is

investigating the shooting. 

the influence —causing incapacitating injury. 

For the 2017 incident on Woodward, court records show Reynolds was charged with one count of operating under

Secretary of State records indicate the incident included two vehicles, and two people were injured. 

Reynolds pleaded no contest, according to court records. He was sentenced to 180 days in jail and put on

probation for two years. 

O'Donohue said the Reynolds family is trying to make sense of what happened Monday. 

"It sounded like he was out with some friends. They're speculating that maybe he was on something, but he came

in and was apparently playing his guitar very loud, causing a disruption, and was very out of sorts or out of

character ... again, what the Reynolds family has to deal with now is a tragic situation," O'Donohue said. 

In dash cam video shared by Royal Oak Police, Reynolds can be seen slowly approaching the patrol car as the

officer asks him to stop. 

The officer asks Reynolds to put his hands on the head, he pauses, but then continues toward the officer. Reynolds

is then seen putting his hands on his head and getting to the ground, but then he suddenly charges toward the

officer and the sounds of multiple gunshots ring out. 

Reynolds' friends were shocked by what happened. Malayna Carmen, 19, attended middle and high school with

him. 

would radiate off of him." 

"I really just want people to know, Cody was always so kind," she said. "I never saw Cody without a smile on his

face. He was always so bright and vivid. Anytime he walked into the room, he had a kindness and happiness that

This incident comes on the heels of another fatal officer-involved shooting that happened in Royal Oak on April 10

after a man fled from a traffic stop near 13 Mile and Woodward. 

The driver, identified as Antonino Thomas Gordon, 28, of Commerce Township sped off in his BMW. 

Royal Oak police said in a statement that officers located Gordon in the drive-through of a White Castle at 13 Mile

and Coolidge. An officer then shot Gordon, who ended up crashing head-on into a minivan on 13 Mile near

According to a news release obtained in April by the Free Press, the officer involved in that incident was not injured

and was placed on administrative leave. The case was turned over to the Oakland County Sheriff's Special

Police said there was a criminal bench warrant out for Gordon's arrest. 

O'Donohue confirmed that the officer involved in Gordon's case is on administrative leave, but the two cases are

"Any loss of life is tragic, and the police department ... (and) the public should be very critical of how we respond

and when it results in someone's death we should be held to an extremely high standard and under a microscope.

But again, these are two separate and unique instances. ... (Royal Oak's) crime rates are way down, our citizen

complaints are down, our engagement with the public is very good. ... These two instances are unique in police

work. This is the ugly reality of police work sometimes." 

Contact reporter Aleanna Siacon at ASiacon@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter: @AleannaSiacon. Staff writers

Shenandoah. 

Investigation Unit. 

"separate and distinct." 

Bill Laitner, Christina Hall, Brandon Patterson and Ann Zaniewski contributed. 
 
 
