Royal Oak police officer cleared in May 14 fatal - Royal Oak Review (MI) -
August 17, 2018
August 17, 2018 | Royal Oak Review (MI) | Sarah Wojcik

ROYAL OAK — In a report dated Aug. 15, the Oakland County Prosecutor's Office concluded that
the May 14, 2018, shooting death of 20-year-old Royal Oak resident Cody Reynolds
Cody Reynolds  by Officer
Ryan Addis was a "justifiable homicide."

T he Prosecutor's Office said its investigation resulted in the determination that it would authorize
no criminal charges against Addis because he was "acting in lawful self-defense."

According to a description of the event in the report, Reynolds woke his parents at their Royal Oak
home in the early morning May 14 and appeared to be under the influence of some drug — they
described him as "mumbling," "bizarre" and "psychotic."

According to the toxicology report, Reynolds' blood showed the presence of psilocin, the
hallucinogenic part of psilocybin, which is found in several species of mushrooms. T he report
states that "psilocybin mushrooms are hallucinogenic and produce profound changes in
consciousness and perception."

When Reynolds' father attempted to get his son to go to bed, Reynolds hit him in the head with a
guitar and shortly after stabbed his mother in the upper chest, according to the Aug. 15 report. In a
previous interview, Royal Oak Police Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said the blade struck her bone and
that Reynolds had wielded it with enough force to break the knife.

Reynolds' mother called 911 at approximately 3:11 a.m. May 14 to report the incident.

Minutes after the call, Addis encountered Reynolds walking barefoot down the street on Hudson
Avenue, approximately 280 feet from Reynolds' residence's backyard, and Addis stopped his patrol
car and exited his vehicle, according to the Aug. 15 report.

Addis said that he did not know if Reynolds was armed. Reynolds was not armed.

According to the investigation, Addis ordered Reynolds, who was slowly walking toward him, to
stop and asked if Reynolds was the one who had stabbed somebody, to which Reynolds said, "Yes."

Once Reynolds closed the distance between himself and Addis, he abruptly went to the ground,
then "without warning, he sprang up and lunged at Officer Addis," according to the Aug. 15 report.

Addis backed up, braced himself, "expecting that Reynolds was going to stab him in the neck," and
fired "until Reynolds stopped charging him and fell to the ground," the report states.

Reynolds was shot four times, according to the report, with the first shot entering his chest and

three others entering his back.

Officers administered first aid until the Royal Oak Fire Department arrived and transported
Reynolds to Beaumont Hospital, Royal Oak, where he was later pronounced dead.

At the time, police said, Reynolds was on probation for an incident in 2017 in which he drove the
wrong way on Woodward, was involved in an accident and seriously injured another driver. Police
arrested him for operating while intoxicated causing serious injury — a felony. His blood alcohol
content was 0.247, according to the report.

O'Donohue said police also discovered drug paraphernalia in Reynolds' car at the time.

According to the investigation, Reynolds had a history of depression and attempted suicide.

T he Royal Oak Police Department said it hired Addis in August 2014 and that he has no history of
use-of-force complaints.

"T he events that occurred on May 14 can only be described as heartbreaking," Royal Oak Police
Chief Corrigan O'Donohue said in a statement. "Our thoughts and prayers go out to the Reynolds
family."

On Aug. 1, the Royal Oak Police Department held a press conference to announce that the
Genesee County Prosecutor's Office had cleared Officer Keith Bierenga, an 11-year veteran of the
force, of all criminal wrongdoing in the April 10, 2018, fatal shooting of 28-year-old Antonino
Gordon in a White Castle drive-thru.

Bierenga attempted to make a traffic stop of a BMW driven by Gordon at approximately 6:11 p.m.
April 10 near 13 Mile Road and Coolidge Highway, but the BMW fled through the nearby White
Castle parking lot.

Approximately 15 minutes later, Bierenga observed the same vehicle in the White Castle drive-thru
and parked his patrol car at a 45-degree angle in front of the BMW. He exited his vehicle with his
weapon drawn and the BMW twice reversed and then rapidly pulled forward, according to Genesee
County Prosecutor David Leyton's report.

Bierenga fired four shots into the open driver's side window, three of which hit Gordon, according
to the report. Gordon then exited the parking lot to the east, crossed over the centerline of West
13 Mile Road and struck a minivan near Shenandoah Drive.

First responders transported him to Beaumont Hospital, Royal Oak, where he was pronounced
dead.

According to the toxicology report, Gordon's blood alcohol content was over three times the legal
limit, and he also tested positive for cannabinoids.

At the time of the incident, Gordon had a criminal bench warrant for drunken driving-second
offense with a $75,000 bond, and he had numerous contacts with law enforcement, including

operating while intoxicated and disorderly conduct, police said.

Prior to the two separate officer-involved shootings in April and May of this year, O'Donohue said,
Royal Oak police had not been involved in a fatal shooting for 20 years.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Royal Oak Review (MI), All Rights Reserved.

 