Aurora police release surveillance video from - Chicago Sun-Times (IL) -
April 17, 2018
April 17, 2018 | Chicago Sun-Times (IL) | Matthew Hendrickson

Aurora police released surveillance video Tuesday on Facebook from a fatal police-involved
shooting last month in the west suburb.

About 9:45 p.m. March 22, two officers pulled over a vehicle in the first block of Galena Boulevard
after they saw it leave a "known gang house" in the 200 block of South Lake Street, according to
Aurora police.

Santiag o Calderon | Aurora police
Santiag o Calderon

T he driver of the vehicle, 36-year-old Santiag o Calderon
officers before taking off east and crashing into another vehicle at the intersection of Galena
Boulevard and Broadway, police said.

Santiag o Calderon of Aurora, then fired shots at the

After getting out of his vehicle, Calderon was fatally wounded in a shootout with officers on Lasalle
Street between Galena Boulevard and Downer Place, police said. A handgun was found by his side
when officers tried to provide medical attention.

On T uesday, police said that because the surveillance videos were sometimes difficult to see,
authorities took screen shots and highlighted key moments in the incident to clarify what
happened to viewers.

“Please remember these are taken from bank surveillance cameras and appear ‘jumpy’. Also, the
AT M and Bank Parking Lot cameras are not synchronized so there are some minor discrepancies
in timing,” the department wrote in the post.

 

T he videos released by police also includes footage shot by a citizen that shows the officer’s initial
response, police said. T he captions in the video were placed on the footage by the citizen, not the
police department.

T he footage begins with Calderon running from an investigator toward a white SUV in the parking
lot of a bank, where shots are exchanged with officers, police said. Later in the video, an officer can
be seen dropping to the ground when Calderon fires again.

Police provided a detailed narrative of the incident as well as timestamps in their Facebook post.

Calderon, who lived in Aurora, was pronounced dead at the scene, according to the Kane County
Coroner's Office.

One of the officers, Colin Griffin, was shot in his leg and taken to a hospital in Aurora, Aurora Police
Chief Kristen Ziman said at a March 23 news conference.

T he other officer, Matthew Huber, also suffered an injury to his shoulder during the exchange, but
wasn't wounded by gunfire, police said.

T he officers, both 10-year veterans of the department, were treated and released from the
hospital. Both were placed on paid administrative leave while the Kane County Major Crimes T ask
Force investigates the shooting, police said.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Sun-Times Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

 