Man killed in shootout with cops was out on bail - Daily Herald
(Arlington Heights, IL) - March 24, 2018 - page 1
March 24, 2018 | Daily Herald (Arlington Heights, IL) | Susan Sarkauskas ssarkauskas@dailyherald.com | Page
1

T he man Aurora police shot and killed Thursday night had been arrested March 18 on a weapons
charge and was free on bail, Aurora Police Chief Kristen Ziman said Friday.

Santiag o Calderon
Santiag o Calderon, 36, of Aurora, was identified as the man shot after police chased him to
downtown Aurora when he fled their attempt to pull him over.

T he officers involved, Matt Huber and Colin Griffin, have been placed on paid administrative leave
while the Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force investigates.

Ziman expressed condolences to Calderon’s family at a news conference at the police department.

"Despite his actions that resulted in this outcome, he (Calderon) is a father and a son, and that is
not lost on us," Ziman said.

Ziman praised the police officers, saying they acted "bravely and courageously."

Griffin was shot in the leg and Huber injured his shoulder while taking cover during the shootout.
Both were treated at a hospital and released.

T he two were watching a suspected "gang house" on the 200 block of South Lake Street when
they saw two men exit and get into a green Chevrolet sport utility vehicle. T hey pulled it over on the
0-99 block of East Galena Boulevard.

Calderon, who was the driver, fired shots at the officers and then drove off, hitting a Chevrolet
Malibu at Galena and Broadway. Calderon then ran from the SUV and fired more shots.

He was killed in a parking lot on LaSalle Street between Galena and Downer Place. He was
pronounced dead at the scene.

Ziman said the officers were in an unmarked police car that did not have a dashboard camera.
Aurora police do not wear body cameras.

Police are seeking any video surveillance from security cameras on buildings in the area.

Ziman said the "gang house" has been the focus of police and been connected to shootings.

Calderon had been due to appear in court March 21 on the gun charge, according to Kane County
court records, but did not do so, and a warrant had been issued for his arrest.

She did not know what caliber handgun Calderon used, nor how many times he had been shot. T he
Kane County coroner’s office will conduct an autopsy.

T he passenger in Calderon’s car was released from custody Friday morning without charges.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Daily Herald

 