‘He’s sick of the pain,’ mother of man shot - Citrus County Chronicle
(Crystal River, FL) - February 20, 2018
February 20, 2018 | Citrus County Chronicle (Crystal River, FL) | MIKE WRIGHT

Lisa Batchelder's voice was frantic and desperate.

Her son Ryan had just stormed off, armed and threatening to kill his wife and himself.

"He's a veteran and he overdosed on his meds," she said. "He's not in a good state of mind. He
almost ran me over when I tried to stop him."

T hat call to 911 came at 3:45 p.m. Saturday. Two hours later, her son was shot by Citrus County
Sheriff's Office deputies after he ended a pursuit through Hernando by ramming his Kia minivan
into a deputy's car parked in a plaza parking lot. He died on the scene.

T he Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating the incident.

T he sheriff's office released to the Chronicle recordings of five 911 calls it received Saturday.
Although the names of 911 callers are exempt from public disclosure, Mrs. Batchelder told a
reporter on Sunday that she called 911 after her son left their house.

During the nearly 19-minute phone call, Mrs. Batchelder told a dispatcher that her son served in
Afghanistan and was being treated for post-traumatic stress disorder. She said he was unable to
get timely appointments with the Veterans Administration clinic, and a recent marital problem had
set him off.

"I tried to get him to tell me, 'What's your plan? If you don't have a plan, then it's just a thought,'"
Mrs. Batchelder told 911.

T he dispatcher asked: "What do you think Ryan's going to do if he sees the officers?"

Mrs. Batchelder replied she wasn't sure.

"He's a good kid," she said. "I don't perceive that he'll do anything. T hen again, he's emotionally,
'Oh my God!' He's had a bad situation going to Afghanistan. Since he's come back, he's not the
same."

Sheriff's deputies responded to the Hernando Plaza where Ryan B atchelder
worked at the Xtreme Games 3 internet cafe, waiting for Batchelder in case he showed up.

Ryan B atchelder's wife, Samantha,

Deputies spotted Batchelder's car and began to pursue it north on State Road 200, calling off the
pursuit because of Batchelder's speed, officials said.

A motorist on S.R. 200 called in to 911 a reckless driver.

"T here's a blue minivan driving crazy," the caller said. "He had to be going 100 mph just weaving in
and out. He ran two cars off the road. Ran us off the road."

T he caller said the minivan turned south onto County Road 491, where deputies picked up the
pursuit to U.S. 41 and south through Hernando. Sheriff's officials said Batchelder drove through
Hernando to Parsons Point Road and made his way back to U.S. 41 heading north as attempts to
stop the minivan were unsuccessful.

Officials said he drove at a high rate of speed directly into the Hernando Plaza parking lot at the
S.R. 200 apex, slamming into a deputy's parked car.

T hey said Batchelder displayed the weapon to deputies during the chase, but would not say
whether he fired it after the crash.

A witness told the Chronicle he heard three gunshots and deputies returning fire.

Batchelder's father, Michael, had arrived at the business prior to his son and said Sunday that he
witnessed the shooting.

He was working and called 911 after receiving a call from his wife.

"I was going to see if I could head down and de-escalate the situation," he told a dispatcher,
according to the recording.

Michael Batchelder said his son was in possession of a handgun.

"He's very proficient in weapons," he said in the 911 call.

(T he sheriff's office would not comfirm that Michael Batchelder made the call; however, during the
call, he referred to Ryan's mother as his wife.)

Michael and Lisa Batchelder told a reporter on Sunday that their son served with the Vermont
National Guard during his mid-20s. When Ryan moved to Florida his parents followed to help him
out, they said.

Mrs. Batchelder told dispatchers that her son had trouble getting appointments with the VA
despite his medical condition. His parents could not get through to him, either.

"He wouldn't let me call the VA to get him help," she said. "He said, 'T hey don't help. We risk our
lives for the country and the VA doesn't do (expletive).'"

T he two deputies involved in the shooting, Ryne Rainey and Mike Anger, were placed on
administrative leave with pay as per agency policy. Both officers were outside their vehicles when
Batchelder rammed the cruiser, and Rainey was hospitalized briefly Saturday with injuries from the
crash, sheriff's officials said.

Mrs. Batchelder said she pleaded with her son to stay home.

"I told him if he left, 'You're not going to do something stupid. You need to figure this out,'" she
said in the 911 call. "He said no. He's sick of the pain."

Contact Chronicle reporter Mike Wright at 352-563-3228 or mwright@chronicleonline.com.

Editor's note: T his story has been updated to clarify that the deputies were placed on
administrative leave with pay, not suspended.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Citrus County Chronicle, Landmark Community Newspapers LLC (LCNI). All rights reserved.

 