A crisis we must deal with - Citrus County Chronicle (Crystal River, FL)
- February 24, 2018
February 24, 2018 | Citrus County Chronicle (Crystal River, FL) | Staff Writer

T he violence in Florida over the past 10 days has been excruciating. T he murder of 17 young
people at the high school in Parkland is a national tragedy that demands a legislative and moral
response.

My daughter-in-law is an alumnus of the high school, so it hit close to home.

T he tragedies we experienced in our own community over the same weekend were just as
horrifying. T he death of Ryan B atchelder
months of opportunities for mental health and VA folks to respond to the warning signals.

Ryan Batchelder was unavoidable in the final moments, but there were

T he murder of Erin Prost in Homosassa was yet another sign of how out of control things have
gotten.

Ryan B atchelder
Ryan Batchelder was an Army veteran who was shot and killed by sheriff's deputies last Saturday
after a confrontation in Hernando.

Batchelder, 28, was stationed in Afghanistan and was being treated for service-related PT SD.

As reported in the Chronicle this week, Ryan's mother made a desperate call to the sheriff's office
on Saturday afternoon warning that he had overdosed on his meds and was not in a good state of
mind. Ryan's wife worked at a local Hernando business and there was fear for her safety.

By the conclusion of the confrontation, Ryan lay dead in the parking lot of a Hernando shopping
center and the lives of so many people had been changed forever.

T he background tragedy is that the family knew Ryan needed help and had been trying to get
counseling from the VA. Appointments were hard to get and pushed out many weeks.

Mental illness does not respond well to waiting periods.

T his young man served his country and experienced combat. While he did not die on the battlefield,
he died as a result of his service and a lack of urgency after he returned home.

Now the victims include his wife and child; his family; and the officers who were injected into a
situation that ended in Ryan's death.

On the same day Erin Prost, 42, of was shot and killed in her home in Homosassa. Her boyfriend,
Bruce Leonard, is suspected of the crime but we will never know the details. He turned the gun on
himself after he shot his girlfriend.

Erin was a waitress at the Crab Plant in Crystal River and was loved by her fellow workers and
customers.

Less than 12 hours after these tragedies, the Chronicle published the start of a series of stories
about the lack of mental health services in our community. T he publication of the stories was a
coincidence, but there was no greater reinforcement of the importance of this crisis than what
happened to Ryan and Erin last week.

People die every week in our own county because we do a miserable job in providing mental health
services. T he VA is an awful bureaucracy dragged down by a lack of funding and urgency. T he
Centers, the official agency charged with mental health care in Citrus County, has a limited
footprint and very few services.

Citrus County in general is served by a few over-worked private providers and a scattering of
government services. T he funding through the state and Medicaid is almost non-existent.

T he Chronicle is going to spend a lot of time over the next 12 months digging into this issue and
shedding light on the problem.

Most of us have ignored this so long that it has become an epidemic that too often spills into the
headlines because of the violence and mayhem that ensues. Our approach to mental health
problems is too often calling a sheriff's deputy to Backer Act an individual during the crisis. T hat
serves almost no purpose because the individual is usually released within a few days with no
treatment or remedy for the underlying problem.

In Ryan's case the problem can be tied back to his service to our country. So many others enter
the world of despair thru the abuse of drugs and alcohol. Any many others have imbalances that
only health care professionals can figure out.

When we ignore the drug and mental health problem, we end up with violence in the streets.
People die way too young and the lives of people around them are shattered.

Many of the property and vehicle crimes we have in this community can be tied directly to those
abusing drugs. Our jails are filled — at a huge cost to every taxpayer — with people who suffer
from drug or mental health problems.

T here has got to be a better way of dealing with these problems before they make the front page
of the paper. I don't know what the answers are, but we are going to spend time searching for
them and bringing them to your attention.

T ogether we can explore and embrace some solutions. We owe that to Ryan and Erin and all the
other victims.

Gerry Mulligan is the publisher of the Chronicle. Email him at gmulligan@chronicleonline.com.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Citrus County Chronicle, Landmark Community Newspapers LLC (LCNI). All rights reserved.

 