Officer 'fighting for his life' after being shot - Springfield News-Sun
(OH) - September 3, 2018
September 3, 2018 | Springfield News-Sun (OH) | WSBTV.com

COVINGT ON, Ga. —

A police officer was shot Monday afternoon at a Walmart in Covington, Georgia.

Police confirmed the incident happened around 1 p.m. as officers responded to a shoplifting call.

> Read more trending news

When they arrived, officers said three suspects ran behind the store and started firing at the
officer, who was hit at least once, WSB-T V reported

2 PM UPDAT E FROM COVINGT ON PD:

- Covington cop has been flown to Atlanta Medical Center; his condition unknown

-T wo suspects in custody; a third suspect is dead

-Officer was responding to a shoplifting call at Walmart. Three suspects ran behind the store and
started shooting

— Michael Seiden (@SeidenWSBT V) September 3, 2018

Update 6:53 p.m. EDT  Sept. 3: Covington police say one of their officers is fighting for his life after
being shot by a shoplifting suspect near a Walmart.

Investigators said they were called out to the store along Industrial Boulevard just before 12:30
p.m. Monday for a shoplifting call. T he Georgia Bureau of Investigation said three men were
attempting to steal bandanas.

Officers arrested two suspects but a third, identified as Aaron Fleming

Aaron Fleming , 21, ran.

Aaron
Just In: GBI confirms the man killed after allegedly shooting a Covington Police officer is Aaron
Fleming , 21. https://t.co/YUmiaA2Li8 pic.twitter.com/HMaaVxEvwN
Fleming

— Matt Johnson (@MattWSB) September 3, 2018

A Covington police sergeant and Officer Matt Cooper chased Fleming across the street and behind
another shopping center.

As the sergeant turned the corner, he said he saw Fleming shoot Cooper and then take off into the
woods behind the store.

Police said that sergeant later heard a single gunshot inside the woods, went to investigate and
found Fleming dead from a gunshot wound. T he Georgia Bureau of Investigation said the gunshot
was likely self-inflicted.

A helicopter flew Cooper to Atlanta Medical Center, where he's listed in serious condition.

"It's very heavy on all of our hearts. We're praying just like we're going to ask everyone out (there)
who's viewing this, please pray for our officer, please pray for his health and that he can pull
through OK," said Capt. Ken Malcom, of the Covington Police Department.

Malcom told Channel 2 investigative reporter Aaron Diamant this is the first time a police officer
has been shot in Covington during his 33 years with the department.

A witness said that Cooper was shot in the head. Malcom would not confirm those details but said
Cooper is in stable but serious condition.

Cooper, 34, is a father of two and a military veteran, who has spent six years with the department.

T he department says his family is by his side at the hospital.

"T his is something we all pray every day will never happen, but here we are," Malcom said.

T he GBI is leading the investigation into the shooting.

Original story: T he injured officer was flown to Atlanta Medical Center. T he officer was shot in the
head, authorities confirmed to WSB-T V. Covington Police Capt. Ken Malcom said Monday
afternoon that the officer is stable.

Update: Covington Police confirm officer involved in shootout outside Walmart was shot in the
head. Waiting for update on his condition. One suspect dead. Two others in custody. @wsbtv
pic.twitter.com/8g1OgbsaaO

— Aaron Diamant (@AaronDiamantWSB) September 3, 2018

One of the suspects was also shot and died in the parking lot.

T he other two suspects are in custody.

T his is a developing story. Check back with WSBT V.com for updates.

(c) 2018 Cox Newspapers, Inc. - Spring field News-Sun

 