Stabbing suspect, victim identified - Oklahoma man - Wichita Falls
Times Record News (TX) - April 30, 2018 - page A7
April 30, 2018 | Wichita Falls Times Record News (TX) | Patrick Johnston | Page A7

A 22-year-old Oklahoma man was fatally shot by Texas Department of Public Safety troopers
after he reportedly stabbed his ex-girlfriend numerous times.

Anthony
Sgt. Dan Buesing, a DPS spokesperson, identified the Norman, Oklahoma, man as Anthony
Lamar Carter
Lamar Carter, who was pronounced dead at the scene off U.S. Highway 287 a few miles east of
Vernon.

Buesing also identified the woman who was reportedly kidnapped by Carter from her work in
Norman as 20-year-old Kaylea Renee Butts.

A GoFundMe page set up to help pay for Butts' medical expenses states that she was stabbed 13
times before troopers reportedly shot Carter.

According to previous news releases from DPS and the Norman Police Department:

Around 7:25 a.m. T hursday, Norman officers responded to a report of a domestic disturbance
that resulted in the kidnapping of an adult woman, now identified as Butts, in the 1200 block of
36th Avenue NW.

T hat information gained during the initial investigation led officers to believe that the suspect, now
identified as Carter, and Butts were headed towards T exas.

T he NPD provided information about Carter and his vehicle to law enforcement throughout
Oklahoma and T exas.

T hey were later notified that a Burkburnett police and other Texas law enforcement agencies were
in pursuit with the suspect vehicle, a red Dodge Charger.

Carter and Butts were reportedly known to one another and involved in some form of a domestic
relationship prior to the incident.

Based on early reports, area law enforcement deployed several spike strips to stop the Charger as
it fled through Wichita Falls before heading north down U.S. Highway 287 toward Vernon. A spike
strip was eventually successful in bringing the vehicle to a stop.

"T he vehicle lost control and ended up in the barrow ditch," said Wichita County Sheriff David Duke
on T hursday. "One of our deputy's vehicles was up there – actually, he was cutting in there to get
the vehicle before they (the suspect and victim) got out of the car."

As the Wichita County deputy approached with his firearm drawn, Butts reportedly got out of the
Charger and ran toward approaching state troopers who were pulling up to the scene.

At that point, Duke said Carter got out of the Charger also, tackled Butts to the ground and began
stabbing her with a "large knife."

DPS troopers then engaged with Carter in response to him stabbing Butts. Around 9:40 a.m.,
Carter was fatally shot by state troopers.

Butts was taken to Wilbarger General Hospital in Vernon for treatment, and later airlifted to OU
Medical Center in Norman, Oklahoma, with what was described as "serious injuries." No official
update on her condition was available as of 5 p.m. Sunday.

T he Texas Rangers are investigating the incident. More information will be released as it is
available.

© 2018 Journal Media Group

 