
 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (AP) - The Latest on the police killing at an Alabama shopping mall (all times local):  

12:15 p.m.  

they're devastated by his autopsy.  

A lawyer for the family of a black man shot to death by an Alabama police officer on Thanksgiving night says

Their lawyer said Monday that a forensic pathologist hired by the family found Emantic "EJ" Bradford Jr. was

struck three times in the back side of his body, including one gunshot that entered the rear of his skull.  

Speaking at the family's small church in north Birmingham, attorney Ben Crump says nothing justifies the officer's

shooting of "EJ as he was running away from him."  

Emantic Bradford Sr. was visibly angry at the news conference, jabbing his finger as he addressed the unnamed

officer through TV cameras.  

He said "this is murder" and called the officer "a coward" for shooting his son in the back.  

The Rev. Jesse Jackson also was there. He says the authorities' refusal to release video evidence smacks of a

cover-up.  

___  

10:45 a.m.  

___  

10:30 a.m.  

Relatives of a black man shot to death on Thanksgiving by an Alabama police officer have a released a forensic

exam showing he was hit by three bullets to the back side of his body.  

The report released Monday by a lawyer for the dead man's family says Emantic "EJ" Bradford Jr. was struck by

one gunshot that entered the rear of his skull. The report says Bradford also was shot once in the back of the neck

and a third time in the lower back.  

Family attorney Ben Crump says any of the three shots could have killed the 21-year-old. The family hired a

forensic pathologist to review the evidence as the state's investigation continues.  

A Hoover officer shot Bradford in a suburban mall on Thanksgiving night.  

Police in an Alabama city say they won't release officer video or other evidence about an officer's killing of a black

man at a shopping mall until the state investigation is complete.  

Hoover police repeated Monday that state investigators are concerned the investigation could be jeopardized if

information is released.  

on Emantic "EJ" Fitzgerald Bradford Jr.  

A lawyer for the dead man's family, Ben Crump, is expected Monday to announce the results of a private autopsy

Bradford was killed by an officer responding to gunfire at the crowded mall Thanksgiving night.  

Police initially described Bradford as the mall gunman.  

They later said they were wrong, but said Bradford's appearance with a handgun moments after the shooting

increased the threat level for officers.  

___  

5 a.m.  

An attorney is expected to release the results of a private autopsy conducted on a black man killed by a police

officer responding to gunfire at an Alabama mall.  

Attorney Ben Crump scheduled a news conference Monday morning in Birmingham.  

A police officer fatally shot Emantic "EJ" Fitzgerald Bradford, Jr. after two people were wounded by gunfire in a

crowded mall Thanksgiving night.  

Police initially described Bradford as the mall gunman, but later said they were wrong. Then they said Bradford's

appearance with a handgun moments after the shooting increased the threat level for officers.  

Crump said last week that the family hired a pathologist whose independent autopsy would determine how many

times Bradford was shot and if he was shot in the front or the back.  

Credit: By JENNIFER McDERMOTT, Associated Press 
 
 
