4/16/2019

Alabama Cops Say Man They Killed After Mall Shooting Was 'Likely' Not The Gunman | HuffPost

Police initially told reporters they thought Bradford had shot the teen after a ﬁght but retracted that 

statement Friday night.

“New evidence now suggests that while Mr. Bradford may have been involved in some aspect of the 

altercation, he likely did not ﬁre the rounds that injured the 18-year-old victim,” Hoover Police 

Captain Gregg Rector said in a statement.

Police said they “regret that our initial media release was not totally accurate.”

Rector said investigators now believe that more than two people were involved in the initial ﬁght 

ahead of the shooting, and that “at least one gunman” is still at large who could be responsible for 

the shooting of an 18-year-old male and 12-year-old female.

Video posted on social media by shoppers showed a chaotic scene as shoppers ﬂed the mall, which 

closed for the remainder of Thursday night.

The Alabama Law Enforcement Agency has taken the lead role in the investigation since it is an 

Hoover police asked for anyone with information, photos or video evidence of this crime scene to 

A witness, Lexi Joiner, told Al.com she was shopping with her mother when the gunﬁre started. 

Joiner said she heard six or seven shots and was ordered, along with some other shoppers, into a 

oﬃcer-involved shooting.

please contact investigators.

supply closet for cover.

“It was terrifying,” Joiner said.

A woman who described herself as the mother of the injured 12-year-old posted on social media 

that the girl was on a Black Friday shopping trip with other family members when the shooting 

happened, and didn’t immediately realize that the pain in her back was from a bullet.

“She was hurting a lot, but very brave and positive as always,” the mother wrote after seeing the girl 

when she arrived at a hospital.

Hoover police said Friday morning that the girl was in stable condition.

The oﬃcer who shot the gunman was placed on administrative leave while the authorities 

investigate the shooting. The oﬃcer’s name was not released. The oﬃcers were not hurt.

The Riverchase Galleria mall bills itself as the largest enclosed shopping center in Alabama, with 
more than 150 stores.


Alabama Cops Say Man They Killed After Mall Shooti…

   



https://www.huffpost.com/entry/alabama-mall-shooting-hunman_n_5bf9a93de4b03b230fa2132f?ncid=txtlnkusaolp00000616

2/4

 