4/16/2019

Emantic Bradford Was Shot By Police From Behind At Alabama Mall, Autopsy Shows | HuffPost




Log In

Join HuﬀPost Plus

CRIME  12/04/2018 01:21 pm ET

Emantic Bradford Was Shot By Police From
Behind At Alabama Mall, Autopsy Shows

The young Army veteran was leading shoppers to safety during the shooting on
Thanksgiving night.

By Sebastian Murdock

An Alabama man who was fatally shot by police at a mall on Thanksgiving night was shot from 

behind, according to an autopsy. 

Oﬃcers from Hoover, Alabama, responded to a shooting at Galleria Mall in Birmingham on Nov. 22 

that wounded a 12- and 18-year-old. During the incident, police fatally shot 21-year-old Emantic “E.J.” 

Bradford Jr, who they said was holding a pistol. Bradford was directing shoppers to safety during 

the shooting, The New York Times reported



Emantic Bradford Was Shot By Police From Behind A…



   

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/emantic-bradford-was-shot-by-police-from-behind-at-alabama-mall-autopsy-shows_n_5c06adf1e4b07aec575345cc?ncid=txtlnkusaol… 1/4

4/16/2019

Emantic Bradford Was Shot By Police From Behind At Alabama Mall, Autopsy Shows | HuffPost

On Monday, attorney Benjamin Crump said an independent autopsy showed Bradford was shot in 

the back, head and neck, NBC reported.

“We believe based on this forensic evidence that (the oﬃcer who shot Bradford) should be charged 

with a crime,” Crump said at a news conference. “There’s nothing that justiﬁes him shooting E.J. as 

he’s moving away from him. You’re not a threat when you’re running away.”

Bradford graduated from a Catholic high school in the area and joined the Army in 2017. He was 

“administratively separated” from the service in August, The Montgomery Advertiser reported. His 

father, Bradford Sr., said his son had a permit to carry a concealed weapon.

The autopsy report said Bradford had a laceration on his face which might indicate he fell forward 

after being shot from behind.

“EJ’s senseless death is the latest egregious example of a black man killed because he was 

perceived to be a threat due to the color of his skin,” Crump said in a statement.

The killing has sparked protests in the Birmingham area, where demonstrators have demanded 

accountability, including the release of body camera footage of the incident. 

Hoover police said that “body camera video and other available video has been turned over to the 

Alabama Law Enforcement Agency (ALEA) which is now investigating the shooting.”

The results of that investigation will then be turned over to the district attorney’s oﬃce. 

The suspect in the shooting, 20-year-old Erron Brown, was taken into custody in Georgia on 

Thursday, according to NBC News. 

BEFORE YOU GO



Emantic Bradford Was Shot By Police From Behind A…



   

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/emantic-bradford-was-shot-by-police-from-behind-at-alabama-mall-autopsy-shows_n_5c06adf1e4b07aec575345cc?ncid=txtlnkusaol… 2/4

 