
 
The family of a Hoover man shot and killed on Thanksgiving joined a group of 40 demonstrators outside Attorney

General Steve Marshall's office Tuesday, protesting his decision to not charge the Hoover police officer involved. 

"There's been no respect showed from the beginning by the Attorney General," said Emantic Bradford Sr., the father

of Emantic "EJ" Bradford, Jr., shot and killed at the Riverchase Galleria on Nov. 22 after a police officer mistakenly

identified him as another shooter. "He never reached out to us. You're a coward." 

Demonstrators, at one point using a bullhorn, demanded Marshall come out to meet Bradford's family. 

"We know you're in there Steve," activist Frank Matthews said. "You didn't want to see the family, so we brought

them to see you." 

shootings. 

After an hour-long protest at one entrance, demonstrators moved to the main entrance of the building, which

officials had locked. Protesters chanted Bradford's name and put signs in the glass doors, condemning police

A heated but nonviolent confrontation took place there with about 20 city and state law enforcement officers. A

state trooper read the state statute on disorderly conduct three times, and was drowned out by protesters twice.

Two women were later arrested and charged with disorderly conduct for attempting to gain entrance to the

building. Other protesters said they were attempting to retrieve signs. 

A message seeking comment was sent to the Alabama Attorney General's office Tuesday afternoon. 

On Nov. 22, 18-year-old Brian Wilson and a 12-year-old bystander were injured when a man fired a gun at the

Riverchase Galleria Mall in Hoover. An officer who responded shot Bradford, who had drawn his own gun, three

times. Hoover police initially claimed Bradford was the shooter but said later they had misidentified him.

Bradford's family says he was running back to assist a friend. 

Erron Martez Dequon Brown, 20, was arrested in Atlanta on Nov. 29 and has been charged with attempted murder

in the shooting. 

gunshots." 

Marshall intervened in the investigation, citing Jefferson County District Attorney Danny Carr's acquaintance with

protesters and issued a report on Monday saying the officer who shot Bradford "reasonably exercised his official

powers." The report said within a second of the shooting of Wilson, Bradford drew a gun and "ran toward the

According to the report, the officer shot Bradford within two seconds. Some witnesses quoted in the report said

they also believed Bradford was the shooter at the time. 

"A reasonable person could have assumed that the only person with a gun who was running toward the victim of a

shooting that occurred just three seconds earlier fired the shots," the report said. 

The family sharply criticized the report. As the attorney general's report acknowledges, the officer who shot

Bradford said he did not give any commands ordering him to drop his weapon, due to the speed of the situation. 

Bradford's family said he was trying to wave people from the shooting, and that he initially ran from the scene but

went back to assist a friend. 

CREDIT: Brian Lyman 
 

Shootings; Attorneys general; Demonstrations &protests; Murders &murder attempts

Location:

Alabama Atlanta Georgia

Publication title:

Montgomery Advertiser; Montgomery, Ala.

