
 
After dozens of people fled a Thanksgiving evening shooting inside an Alabama mall —stampeding through the

food court and hiding inside stores —one woman told reporters that she said a prayer as she ran: "Give the police

wisdom and accuracy of shots." 

At first, it seemed the prayer was answered. Police in Hoover soon announced they had secured the Riverchase

Galleria and killed the gunman, whom they named as 21-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr. 

Speaking to reporters who were outside the mall, police said Bradford shot a teenager during a fight near the food

court, wounded a 12-year-old girl with a stray bullet and brandished his pistol at the uniformed officer who killed

him. "Thank God we had our officers very close," Police Chief Nick Derzis told AL.com. "They heard the gunfire, they

engaged the subject, and they took out the threat." 

The next day it become clear that police missed something. 

As Black Friday crowds streamed through the mall in the morning, a reporter with Fox affiliate WBRC posted a

photo of a pistol lying on the floor of the Santa's Village display. 

In the evening, police released a statement: "We regret that our initial media release was not totally accurate, but

new evidence indicates that it was not." 

The statement said, "New evidence now suggests that while Mr. Bradford may have been involved in some aspect

of the altercation, he likely did not fire the rounds that injured the 18-year-old victim. This information indicates

that there is at least one gunman still at-large." 

Police, who claimed earlier that Bradford had threatened responding officers with a pistol, said other people

appeared to be involved in the shooting. They say at least one of those people apparently escaped while Bradford

died on the concourse outside a shoe store, surrounded by officers. 

"They were so quick to rush to judgment," Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Sr., the deceased's father, told the

Associated Press from his home near Birmingham on Saturday, after protesters marched through the mall,

demanding to know why police killed a black man who may not have had anything to do with the shooting. 

"That was not his character at all," Bradford's mother, April Pipkins, told the New York Times. 

The police department did not respond over the weekend to questions about whether Bradford had a role in the

shooting and about the search for the person who shot the teen and the girl. The Alabama Law Enforcement

Agency, which has taken over the investigation, planned to release a statement on Sunday. 

Bradford had posted on Facebook photos of himself in an Army uniform. He described himself as a combat

engineer. A spokesman for the Army, however, told The Washington Post that he "never completed advanced

individual training" and so did not serve. An attorney for Bradford's family said he had been honorably discharged

from the Army. 

He lived just outside Birmingham, a few miles from the mall where he was shot. 

"He was a super sweet, funny, kind and good-hearted young man who never had a bad word to say to anyone," his

former Catholic high school teacher Carl Dean told the Hoover Sun. 

About an hour before the shooting, Bradford had posted on Facebook a photo of him posing in a doorway wearing

the shredded jeans and T-shirt in which he would die. Digital scribbles on the photo obscure his left hand, in which

he appears to be holding something. 

Bradford's parents and a family attorney say he had a concealed-handgun license, which is not unusual in

Alabama. The Galleria, which advertises itself as the state's largest indoor mall, prohibits firearms on site,

according to its website. But state law is broadly permissive of gun rights, according to AL.com, and it's unclear

whether the mall has the public signs and security measures that are required for businesses to enforce a firearm

ban. 

The first volley of gunfire broke out on the second floor of the mall shortly before 10 p.m., according to police and

witness accounts. Cellphone videos show people fleeing through the food court, knocking over a cash register and

cowering in employee backrooms. 

An unidentified 18-year-old was shot and reported to be in serious condition at a hospital. A 12-year-old girl

standing nearby was struck in the back by a stray bullet, her mother wrote on Facebook. A military medic used a

shirt from a rack at a nearby store to stop her bleeding. She is expected to recover. 

In this chaos, AL.com reported, "several shoppers were seen with their guns drawn." 

It is unclear where Bradford was during the shooting. Two uniformed police officers working as security guards

intercepted him in front of a shoe store on the second level, where a photo posted online shows him lying on the

tile with blood pooled around his head. 

"While moving toward the shooting scene, one of the officers encountered a suspect brandishing a pistol and shot

him," police said in a statement written immediately after the shooting. In a revised statement, they said Bradford

was fatally shot while "fleeing the shooting scene while brandishing a handgun." 

In videos taken outside the shoe store, shoppers watch in astonishment. 

"That boy didn't shoot at nobody. He's dead!" a man down the corridor says, as officers stand over Bradford and pin

someone else to the ground. "They just killed that black boy for no reason. . . . He probably got a gun license and

everything." 

Civil rights attorney Ben Crump, who has previously represented the families of black shooting victims such as

Stephon Clark and Trayvon Martin, is representing the Bradfords. 

Bradford is one of more than 850 people who have been shot and killed by police in the United States this year,

according to a Washington Post database, and the latest of many black men whose deaths have led to

accusations of systemic racism in the U.S. law enforcement system. 

"The systems in America are dangerous for and to Black people," Bernice King, the daughter of the Rev. Martin

Luther King Jr., wrote as accounts of Bradford's killing spread on Twitter. 

On Saturday, a group of protesters marched around and through the mall, followed by Hoover police officers and

joined by several of Bradford's family members. 

As seen in ABC 33/40s live feed, relatives described Bradford as the youngest member of a military family —the

son of a Marine who, as his great aunt put it, "chose country first, not a bullet." 

"They shot the wrong man!" another woman said, consoling the aunt. 

Read more:'They basically saw a black man with a gun': Police kill armed guard while responding to call 

Dallas Police Dept. fires officer who killed Botham Jean in his apartment 

Man who had been accused of groping opens fire on Tallahassee yoga class, killing two, police say 

'They showed his photo, and my stomach just dropped': Neighbors recall synagogue massacre suspect as a loner 

Credit: By Avi Selk 
 
 
