Suspect killed, 3 cops wounded - Daily Herald (Arlington Heights, IL) -
July 5, 2018 - page 1
July 5, 2018 | Daily Herald (Arlington Heights, IL) | Susan Sarkauskas and Eric Peterson
ssarkauskas@dailyherald.com epeterson@dailyherald.com | Page 1

A 52-year-old man was killed and three police officers were wounded early Wednesday morning
during a shootout that followed a four-hour standoff on the 300 block of Woodridge Circle in
South Elgin, police said.

T he dead man was identified as Frank Dripps
he left his condominium after a lengthy standoff that began around 11 p.m. Tuesday and ended
around 2:30 a.m.

Frank Dripps , 52, who authorities said opened fire on officers as

T he officers’ injuries were not considered life-threatening, and they all were treated and released
Wednesday, according to their respective departments.

South Elgin police had not had previous contact with Dripps, Sgt. Michael Doty said. He said police
do not yet have a motive for Dripps’ actions and he did not know the full content of the
negotiations the Kane County SWAT  team conducted.

Dripps lived in the condominium, Doty said, and no one else was inside at the time.

T wenty people were displaced during the standoff, and a total of 11 police agencies responded,
Doty said.

Doty said Dripps fired twice at South Elgin officers as they got out of their vehicles around 10:50
p.m. Tuesday and later fired at least once at members of the Kane County SWAT  team.

T he initial call was for shots fired, Doty said.

"He initially told our officers that if they came near him, he would shoot them," Doty said.

At one point, Dripps raised a weapon that had a scope to his shoulder. Doty said Dripps had a
shotgun and a rifle. Police are investigating whether he owned them legally.

T he wounded officers were part of the SWAT  team and came from the Geneva and Hanover Park
police departments and the Kane County sheriff’s office. None of the officers’ names were
released.

Geneva Cmdr. Julie Nash said her department’s injured officer was treated at a hospital and
released.

T he injured officer from Hanover Park Police Department was a 32-year-old man and six-year

veteran of the department, authorities said in a Facebook post Wednesday night.

"We are relieved that our officer is expected to make a full recovery, and we recognize the risks
and sacrifices that these and other officers all over the country make to keep our communities
safe on a daily basis," the department said.

Hanover Park Village President Rod Craig said, "We wish him, his wife and his young family well."

Kane County sheriff’s spokesman Lt. Patrick Gengler said his agency’s deputy was treated at a
hospital and released. He said the deputy’s name and information probably won’t be released until
today "so he can get some rest before we put that out there."

A fourth officer, who fired the shot that killed Dripps, was taken to the hospital for observation as
per standard procedure in such circumstances, Doty said.

T he Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force’s officer-involved-shooting team is investigating and
will send its report to the Kane County state’s attorney’s office.

"T he area is safe, and it has always been safe. At this point in the investigation we don’t know why
this happened," Doty said.

He said it had been more than 20 years since there was an officer-involved shooting in South Elgin.

Jessica Kling, who lives in a neighboring building, said she’d casually gotten to know Dripps because
he often was outside drinking as she walked her dog in the quiet neighborhood.

"He was a friendly guy, approachable," Kling said.

She said Dripps and his wife, Paula, had moved from California to South Elgin about a year ago. He
wasn’t working, she said, and had a lot of recent health problems.

T he couple lived in the condo unit with members of the family they were leasing it from, Kling said.
T hough the Dripps had a daughter, Kling wasn’t sure where she is living.

Kling said she had just returned from a fireworks display Tuesday night and initially thought
fireworks were going off nearby before realizing the noise was gunfire.

Another neighbor from across the street, Olu Elegbede, said Dripps was always nice and talkative
when he saw him. Dripps encouraged Elegbede’s college studies and his aim to be a civil engineer,
he said. Jeremy Hooley has been living in his family’s condo in the same building as Dripps for about
three months but never got to know him. Nevertheless, he said he was hunkered inside, right
beside where the police standoff with Dripps was taking place late Tuesday and early Wednesday.
He was not evacuated by police and did not feel it was safe for him or his mother to leave, he said.

T hough Hooley monitored the progress of the standoff all night on Facebook, he could not hear
any of the details of what Dripps and police were saying to each other, he said.

Hooley said he called 911 about 2 a.m. Wednesday to make sure police were aware there were
innocent people in his family’s unit.

He peeked out the window after 3 a.m. when both the sound of gunfire and postings on Facebook
seemed to confirm the confrontation was over.

"I haven’t gotten to sleep at all yet," Hooley said in the early afternoon.

A woman from the family from whom Dripps was renting his space in the unit declined to
comment.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Daily Herald

 