


 
HAMMOND, Ind. (AP) - Federal authorities say a man wanted in connection with the shooting of an U.S. Bureau of

Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives agent in Gary, Indiana is in custody.  

The U.S. Justice Department announced that 25-year-old Bernard Graham of Calumet City, Illinois surrendered

Saturday afternoon.  

Investigators say three men ambushed federal agents on Thursday during an illegal weapons investigation in Gary,

Indiana, just southeast of Chicago. A Chicago-based ATF agent was shot and critically wounded.  

Chicago ATF Special Agent in Charge Celinez Nunez says the agent is expected to make a full recovery.  

Graham and 19-year-old Blake King have been charged with assaulting a federal officer and carrying and

discharging a firearm in the furtherance of a crime.  

Twenty-eight-year-old Raymon Truitt of Gary was shot to death during the incident.  

Credit: By CATHERINE LUCEY and DARLENE SUPERVILLE, Associated Press 
 
 


 
Three men charged from a Gary shootout that injured an ATF agent pleaded not guilty this week. 

Bernard Graham, 25, of Calumet City, Ill., and Blake King, 19, of Chicago, appeared Thursday in Hammond’s federal

The two were charged in an indictment with assault on a federal officer and one count of discharge of a firearm

during a crime of violence, court records show. 

Judge Andrew Rodovich ordered King to remain in custody without bond pending trial, finding that he “is a danger

to (the) community and no combination of conditions exist to ensure the safety of the community,” court records

court. 

state. 

Graham previously agreed to remain in custody but could possibly ask for another detention hearing in the future,

his attorney, Gregory Smith, said. 

Graham and King are scheduled to go to trial Aug. 20, court records show. They are set to appear before then for a

pretrial conference on Aug. 10, according to court records. 

Leondre Smith Jr., 29, of Homewood, Ill., appeared Wednesday in Lake Superior Court. He pleaded not guilty to

attempted unlawful transfer of a handgun, a Level 5 felony, court records show. 

Smith is scheduled for a bail hearing on June 27, according to court records. 

The three were charged after an undercover operation turned into a shootout June 7 in Gary. 

An ATF agent, who has not been identified “due to the nature of his work,” was shot in the chest and arm but is

expected to recover, officials said. 

Attorney Thomas Kirsch II said. 

Raymon Truitt II, 28, was killed in the shootout with undercover agents in the 500 block of Kentucky Street, U.S.

Smith brought two undercover ATF agents and their confidential informant to Gary June 7 to illegally buy firearms

from King, Graham and Truitt, court records state. 

rejacobs@post-trib.com 

Twitter @ruthyjacobs 

Credit: Becky Jacobs 
 
 


 
HAMMOND, Ind. (AP) - Two men have pleaded not guilty to federal charges stemming from an Indiana shootout

that killed a third man and wounded a U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives agent.  

Nineteen-year-old Blake King of Chicago and 25-year-old Bernard Graham of Calumet City, Illinois, entered the pleas

during separate hearings Thursday in Hammond federal court.  

They face charges of assault on a federal officer and discharging a firearm during a crime of violence.  

The June 4 shootout in Gary killed 28-year-old Raymon Truitt, of Gary, and wounded the agent, who hasn't been

identified. ATF has said the agent is expected to make a full recovery.  

Magistrate Judge Andrew Rodovich ordered King to remain in custody without bond pending trial scheduled for

Indiana Chicago Illinois United States--US Illinois

Identifier / keyword:

Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives United States government

Illinois United States North America Indiana Gary Chicago General news Homicide

Violent crime Crime Assault and battery Shootings Legal proceedings Law and order

Publication title:

AP English Language News (includes AP 50 State Report); New York

Aug. 20. Graham has agreed to remain in custody.  

Credit: By MARK SHERMAN, Associated Press 
 
 



 
Dec. 20--The investigation into the fatal police shooting of Travis Jordan has been turned over to the Hennepin

County Attorney's Office, which will decide whether two Minneapolis police officers acted properly when they fired

at the apparently suicidal man during an encounter on the city's North Side last month. 

Chuck Laszewski, a spokesman for the office, confirmed Thursday that prosecutors had accepted the case from

the state Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, the state agency that typically investigates police-involved shootings.

No timeline has been offered for a decision of whether the officers were justified in shooting Jordan. 

Authorities say that a woman, thought to be Jordan's girlfriend, called police at 1:58 p.m. on Nov. 7 to do a

wellness check on Jordan, after he started making suicidal comments during a phone conversation. Officers Ryan

Keyes and Neal Walsh arrived at his home in the 3700 block of Morgan Avenue N. within six minutes of her 911 call

and encountered Jordan, who was holding a knife, according to authorities. 

What happens next remains murky, but authorities said the two officers shot Jordan, 36, multiple times as he

clutched the knife. He died later at a nearby hospital. 

Body cameras captured video and audio of the shooting, which were immediately turned over to the BCA. 

Keyes and Walsh, both relative newcomers to the Fourth Precinct where the shooting occurred, remain on

standard administrative leave. 

The shooting reignited calls for better police responses to mental health crisis, and prompted the City Council to

fund an expansion of the department's mental health co-responder program, which pairs officers with counselors

on certain calls involving mentally unstable individuals. 

Friends and relatives have disputed the official account of what occurred and questioned why officers didn't use a

Taser instead of bullets to subdue Jordan, who court records show had a history of mental health issues and

The Police Department through a spokeswoman declined to comment on Thursday. 

substance abuse. 

CREDIT: By Libor Jany 
 
 


 
Nov. 21--Police in Stillwater fatally shot and killed a man on Wednesday who they said was armed with a knife. 

The encounter occurred about 1 a.m. at a home in the 1200 block of 4th Street S., according to Stillwater Police

Chief John Gannaway. 

One officer discharged a gun, while another fired a Taser, the chief said. 

Officers from the Stillwater, Bayport and Oak Park Heights police departments were called to the residence on a

report of a man being suicidal, Gannaway said. 

Officers encountered the man, who they said had a knife, and opened fire. 

He was taken to nearby Lakeview Hospital and pronounced dead. His identity has yet to be released. 

Police body-worn cameras and squad car cameras were in use at the time, the chief said. The state Bureau of

Criminal Apprehension (BCA) has been asked to lead the investigation. 

This is the third instance this month in the Twin Cities area of police fatally shooting someone, all of whom were

said to be suicidal. 

Travis Jordan, 36, was shot in north Minneapolis on Nov. 9 outside his home in the 3700 block of Morgan Avenue.

The BCA said Jordan had a large kitchen knife on him at the time when he emerged from the front door. 

That same day, an officer in Shakopee shot a man who pointed a gun at him at a house in the 800 block of Apgar

Street, according to police. The man was identified as 61-year-old James Paul Hanchett. 

Both of those encounters remain under investigation by the BCA. 

CREDIT: By Paul Walsh 
 
 


 
Two Minneapolis police officers who fatally shot a suicidal north Minneapolis man carrying a large kitchen knife

during a mental health call in November will not face criminal charges, Hennepin County Attorney Mike Freeman

announced Thursday. 

and they shot him. 

Officers Ryan Keyes and Neal Walsh fired eight times at Travis Jordan, 36, after he emerged from his house in the

3700 block of Morgan Avenue N. armed with a 13½-inch Chefmate knife and refused orders to drop the weapon,

authorities said. Body camera footage showed them pleading with him to drop the knife before he lunged at them

"I express my heartfelt condolences to Mr. Jordan's family and to his girlfriend over his tragic death," Freeman said

in a prepared statement. "However, in reviewing all of the evidence gathered by the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal

Apprehension, including video from the officers' body cameras, it was clear, at that moment, Mr. Jordan presented

a real danger to the officers. Under Minnesota law, they were justified in using deadly force." 

Jordan's girlfriend called 911 just before 2 p.m. on Nov. 9 to report that he was threatening to commit suicide. She

had spoken to him 15 minutes earlier when he said he wanted to die, according to an eight-page report from the

BCA. 

Keyes and Walsh were sent to the home, where they knocked on the front door but got no response. Keyes

approached the back of the house and saw Jordan in the kitchen. Keyes shone his flashlight through the window

and was greeted with an obscene gesture, the report says. 

Body camera footage shows the officers trying to speak with Jordan, who responded with expletives. Keyes noted

to a dispatcher that his speech was slurred. 

Keyes then spotted him through the front porch window, armed with a knife. 

"Put the knife down, dude, drop the knife, dude," both repeatedly commanded, as Jordan responded with expletives. 

Jordan then opened the front door. 

"Do not come outside. Drop the knife," Walsh said. 

"Come on, let's do this!" Jordan said. 

"Drop the knife, dude, I do not want to do this," Walsh said. "Put it down, come on." 

"Do this!" Jordan responded. "[Expletive] do it!" 

"No. I do not want to do this," Walsh said. "Put the knife down and we'll come out and talk." 

Jordan then walked toward them, repeatedly screaming, "Let's do this!" The officers took a few steps back before

they fired. 

Jordan was immediately handcuffed before they rendered aid. "I'm sorry," Jordan said to them, moaning. 

Paramedics took him to North Memorial Health Hospital in Robbinsdale, where he died. 

"Officers Walsh and Keyes' use of deadly force was objectively reasonable in the face of the danger of death or

great bodily harm and no criminal charges could or should be made," Freeman concluded. 

Investigators later searched the home and found a notebook in his room with a message written to the

homeowner. "Paul, I'm so sorry this happened at your house," it said. 

In the days following the shooting, Jordan's family members questioned why the officers didn't use a Taser instead

of bullets to subdue someone who appeared to only be a threat to himself. 

In the mind of Jordan's cousin, Malia Nzara, his death exposed the criminal justice system's shortcomings in

dealing with those battling mental illness. 

"Travis was a loving and caring person who was in crisis. This is what a person in crisis looks like," Nzara said. "He

needed help; that's why we called 911. They shot him and now he's dead. It's obvious systemic change needs to

happen in regards to police training." 

According to court records and family members, Jordan had a history of mental health issues and had been

committed to a treatment facility after he began drinking heavily and started having problems at work. 

The shooting renewed calls from some City Council members for better police responses to mental health crises,

namely an expansion of the department's mental health co-responder program, which pairs officers with

counselors on calls involving individuals in the midst of a crisis. 

Jordan, who went by "TJ," was a native of Maui, Hawaii. Family members plan to hold a private ceremony there

next month to spread his ashes. 

Mayor Jacob Frey extended his condolences to the Jordan family Thursday before reminding the community that

his life "meant far more than the final moments captured on the tape released today." 

"It is clear that we as a society are consistently falling short for those with mental health illnesses," Frey added. 

Police Chief Medaria Arradondo said that the "devastating" outcome was not one anyone had hoped for. 

"These two officers who took an oath to serve their community would never have wanted this outcome to be a part

of their duties on that day," said Arradondo, who vowed to ensure that his officers continue receiving crisis

Both officers, who have been with the department just over one year, remain on standard administrative leave, said

Subject:

Fatalities; Criminal investigations; Deadly force; Mental health care; Camcorders;

intervention and de-escalation training. 

police spokesman John Elder. 

Liz Sawyer •612-673-4648 

CREDIT:LIZ SAWYER; STAFF WRITER 
 
 


 
Dec. 21--Correction: The Bureau of Criminal Apprehension's investigation is continuing, and the case has not yet

been turned over to the Hennepin County Attorney's Office, spokesman Chuck Laszewski said. 

The investigation into the fatal police shooting of Travis Jordan is continuing, before the Hennepin County

Attorney's Office decides whether two Minneapolis police officers acted properly when they fired at the apparently

suicidal man during an encounter on the city's North Side last month. 

Chuck Laszewski, a spokesman for the office, confirmed Thursday that prosecutors had accepted the case from

the state Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, the state agency that typically investigates police-involved shootings.

But later he said that the investigation was still in the BCA's hands. 

Authorities say that a woman, thought to be Jordan's girlfriend, called police at 1:58 p.m. on Nov. 7 to do a

wellness check on Jordan, after he started making suicidal comments during a phone conversation. Officers Ryan

Keyes and Neal Walsh arrived at his home in the 3700 block of Morgan Avenue N. within six minutes of her 911 call

and encountered Jordan, who was holding a knife, according to authorities. 

What happens next remains murky, but authorities said the two officers shot Jordan, 36, multiple times as he

clutched the knife. He died later at a nearby hospital. 

Body cameras captured video and audio of the shooting, which were immediately turned over to the BCA. 

Keyes and Walsh, both relative newcomers to the Fourth Precinct where the shooting occurred, remain on

standard administrative leave. 

The shooting reignited calls for better police responses to mental health crisis, and prompted the City Council to

fund an expansion of the department's mental health co-responder program, which pairs officers with counselors

on certain calls involving mentally unstable individuals. 

Friends and relatives have disputed the official account of what occurred and questioned why officers didn't use a

Taser instead of bullets to subdue Jordan, who court records show had a history of mental health issues and

The Police Department through a spokeswoman declined to comment on Thursday. 

Correction: Previous versions of this article misstated the status of the investigation. The case has not yet been

turned over to the Hennepin County Attorney's Office. 

substance abuse. 

CREDIT: By Libor Jany 
 
 


 
Nov. 21--Police in Stillwater fatally shot and killed a man Wednesday who they said was armed with a knife at the

The encounter occurred about 1 a.m. at a home in the 1200 block of 4th Street S., according to Stillwater Police

family's home. 

Chief John Gannaway. 

One officer discharged a gun, while another fired a Taser, the chief said. 

Officers from the Stillwater, Bayport and Oak Park Heights police departments were called to the residence on a

report of a man being suicidal, Gannaway said. 

Officers encountered the man, who they said had a knife, and opened fire. 

He was taken to nearby Lakeview Hospital and pronounced dead. 

While authorities have yet to release the man's name, a neighbor identified him as 21-year-old Keaton Larson. 

The neighbor, who asked not to be identified, said Larson lived at the home with a brother. 

He added that he saw Larson just off the sidewalk across the street from their homes. Larson was being tended to

by emergency personnel. 

already cut his own throat. 

Emergency dispatch audio revealed that a woman reported that her brother was trying to kill himself and may have

An officer reported to dispatch that Larson "has got a knife. He's at the front door." 

Larson moved farther from his home, and seconds later officers screamed, "Shots fired!" 

Police body-worn cameras and squad car cameras were in use at the time, the chief said. The state Bureau of

Criminal Apprehension (BCA) has been asked to lead the investigation. 

This is the third instance this month in the Twin Cities area of police fatally shooting someone, all of whom were

said to be suicidal. 

Travis Jordan, 36, was shot in north Minneapolis on Nov. 9 outside his home in the 3700 block of Morgan Avenue.

The BCA said Jordan had a large kitchen knife on him at the time when he emerged from the front door. 

That same day, an officer in Shakopee shot a man who pointed a gun at him at a house in the 800 block of Apgar

Street, according to police. The man was identified as 61-year-old James Paul Hanchett. 

Both of those encounters remain under investigation by the BCA. 

CREDIT: By Paul Walsh 
 
 


 
Nov. 12--Minneapolis police on Sunday released the transcript of the 911 call made moments before the fatal

shooting of a man they described as suicidal and armed. 

In the transcript of the call made on Friday afternoon, the caller identified the man as 36-year-old Travis Jordan.

The caller had received a text from Jordan expressing suicidal ideation and said that Jordan threatened the caller

when they told him they were planning to call the police. 

"[He] said 'go ahead and call the cops, I'll talk to them when they get here,' " the caller said. 

Officers responded to the 3700 block of Morgan Avenue N. just after 2 p.m. 

Police spoksman John Elder said an armed adult male came out of the residence and was shot by an officer. 

Elder would not specify what kind of weapon the man had, but according to scanner audio, an officer reported to

dispatch that "he has a knife" and "he's coming outside." 

Scanner traffic indicated that the man was shot in the stomach. Although police initially said the victim's injuries

were not critical, he later died at North Memorial Health Hospital in Robbinsdale. 

No officers were injured during the encounter, Elder said, and their body cameras were on. Both officers will be

placed on standard administrative leave during an investigation by the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal

The 911 caller is known to the police, Elder said, and authorities believe that the caller felt threatened. 

The caller said Jordan was struggling with depression and anxiety and said he wanted to commit suicide in his

"He's threatened, he's tried to call many times, I mean he calls me all the time saying he wants to die, and I don't

Apprehension. 

mother's house. 

know how to deal with it," the caller said. 

CREDIT: By Mara Klecker 
 
 



 
PITTSBURG >>The man fatally shot by police in the parking lot of Nation's Giant Hamburgers has been identified

as a 43-year-old Antioch resident by the Contra Costa County Coroner's office on Tuesday. 

Police identified Terry Amons, 43, of Antioch as the man police fatally shot on Jan. 12. 

At an undisclosed time that night, police were called to Nation's Giant Hamburgers at 3789 Railroad Ave. after a

resident reported seeing an alleged drug transaction. 

Several minutes later, police arrived and found a vehicle that matched the community member's description. Two

police officers approached the vehicle, and saw a handgun in the center console of the car and told Amons to

place his hands on the steering wheel. 

Amons did as police instructed, but later dropped his right arm in what police have said was an attempt to retrieve

the gun from the center console. Amons raised his hand back up and one of the officers fired. 

Officers provided first aid, but Amons later died at John Muir Hospital. 

The officer has been identified by police as Dillon Tindall, who had served with the Contra Costa Sheriff's Office for

over two years before transferring to the Pittsburg Police Department nine months ago. 

As of this time, police have not said whether drugs were found on Amons' person or in his vehicle. There is no

indication of how many shots were fired. 

Amons' family members disputed this account. 

"I'm saddened by this entire situation, especially to how things played out," said his cousin, Laurie Bardell. "The

whole scenario was off. Terry was not selling drugs. There were no drugs found on him." 

Contra Costa County requires a coroner's inquest hearing every time there is an officer-involved fatality. Pittsburg

police have launched a joint investigation with the Contra Costa County District Attorney's Office. 

Contact Aaron Davis at 408-859-5105. 

Credit: Aaron Davis, STAFF WRITER 
 
 



 
MARTINEZ >>Body cam footage reveals a man sitting in his car at a Pittsburg restaurant was shot by police within

30 seconds of the officers approaching, one of many details released at a coroner's inquest hearing Tuesday

regarding the shooting death. 

Among the evidence in the death of Terry Amons Jr., 43, were two brief clips from officer body camera footage that

depicted the shooting. The clips showed both officers yelling commands at Amons as he sat in the driver's side of

the car. One officer, Dillon Tindall, is seen opening the door. 

Amons is seen sticking one foot out of the car, gripping the steering wheel. Then he briefly lowers his hand to his

right leg. As he raises his hand back up, holding a white glove, Tindall fired shots. The video shows several muzzle

flashes. As it was played, there were audible gasps from a group of Amons' loved ones who attended the hearing. 

Both officers present testified that they saw a handgun in the middle section of Amons' parked car, near the

emergency brake, as they approached him at a Nation's Giant Hamburgers restaurant in Pittsburg. Jurors were

shown a photograph of a handgun police testified was recovered from the car. 

"There was no doubt in my mind he was reaching at the firearm at that point," Tindall testified, saying he believed

Amons was "gearing up for something." He said he feared for his and the other officer's safety. 

The other officer present, Jesus Arellano, testified that he noticed the gun before Tindall, and that both officers

drew their weapon and pointed it at Amons. He described Amons as "fidgety" during the encounter. 

Both officers testified they were called to the scene by an anonymous party who reported "suspicious

circumstances" of what looked to be a drug deal. No narcotics were found in Amons' car. 

A forensic pathologist testified that Amons was shot three times in the back and once in the chest, and that three

of the four gunshot wounds were fatal. One pierced his heart and several other organs. 

Jurors took about 15 minutes Tuesday to unanimously rule that Amons had died "at the hands of another, not by

accident," one of four categories they are given. An attorney representing Pittsburg sent this newspaper an email

asking that city officials not be contacted about the ruling. 

Prominent civil rights attorney John Burris attended the hearing and said afterward he is filing a legal claim on

their behalf. He called the officers' testimony "very well-orchestrated." He said Tuesday was the first time he and

Amons' family saw the video and that they came to court looking for answers. 

"The most critical piece of evidence was the video, and we'll have to look at that more closely," Burris said, later

adding, "I didn't see anything today that's going to stop me from filing my tort claim." 

Both Tindall and Arellano testified Tuesday that they handcuffed Amons after he was shot and fell from the car,

and that they "continued with our police investigation" rather than giving medical aid, because they thought

someone else could have been in the car. Tindall testified he was also concerned at the time Amons could have

been robbing the Nations and had an accomplice in the restaurant. 

"Stranger things have happened," Tindall said on the stand. 

He added that they called for medical aid after the shooting and another officer arrived to provide it "within one to

three minutes." 

Amons was taken to John Muir Medical Center in Walnut Creek and died shortly after being admitted, according to

testimony. 

afternoon. 

The two officer body camera clips, each a little more than a minute long, were not retained by the coroner's office

as a court record. A public records act request for the footage was filed with the city of Pittsburg on Tuesday

Coroner's inquest juries are held whenever someone dies at the hands of police or in police custody. They are

overseen by a presiding officer and carry a similar format to court proceedings, although hearsay evidence can be

admitted, police are allowed to review their reports at-will, and witnesses, including the involved officers, are

allowed to observe each other's testimony. 

The hearings are conducted by the coroner a branch of the Contra Costa Sheriff to give the public a look at the

facts of in-custody or officer-involved deaths, and the jury's decision carries no criminal or civil liability. Jurors are

asked to decide whether the person died by accident, natural causes, suicide, or at the hands of another. 

Contact Nate Gartrell at 925-779-7174. 

Credit: By Nate Gartrell, ngartrell@bayareanewsgroup.com 
 
 


 
PITTSBURG >>The organizers of a rally Saturday to protest the police shooting death of a man earlier this year are

asking people to choose a side in the dispute over what happened. 

Terry Amons Jr., 43, died Jan. 12 after being shot by officers while inside his car in the parking lot of a Nation's

Giant Hamburgers in the 3700 block of Railroad Avenue. Police said he was reaching for a gun. 

The Oscar Grant Committee Against Police Brutality and State Repression, which is hosting the protest from 2-4

p.m. at the eatery, vehemently disagrees. They offer a challenge in a flier promoting the rally. 

"WHICH SIDE ARE YOU ON," asks a headline on the flier distributed by the group. Underneath that broad headline is

a smaller sub-headline: "Pittsburg Police or the People of Pittsburg?" 

Grant became a focal point for police brutality after being fatally shot by BART police Officer Johannes Mehserle

on a Fruitvale station platform on New Year's Day 2009. 

"The police claim that Terry was reaching for a gun," the flier says. "But body cam video does not support this

Body cam footage revealed at a June inquest hearing revealed Amons sitting in his car at Nation's and that he was

shot by police within 30 seconds of the officers approaching. 

The two officers involved, Dillon Tindall and Jesus Arellano, testified at the inquest hearing. During his testimony,

Tindall said "there was no doubt in my mind" that Amons was "gearing up for something" and "reaching at the

claim." 

firearm." 

The body cam footage showed Amons sticking one foot out of the car, gripping the steering wheel. He then briefly

lowered his hand to his right leg. As Amons raised his hand back up, holding a white glove, Tindall fired shots. 

The video showed several muzzle flashes, and as it was played, there were audible gasps from a group of Amons'

loved ones who attended the hearing. 

Attorney John Burris attended the inquest and has said he is considering filing a claim against the department. At

the inquest hearing, he called the officers' testimony "very-well orchestrated." 

Contact Rick Hurd at 925-945-4789 and Nate Gartrell at 925-779-7174.  

CREDIT: By Rick Hurd and Nate Gartrell, Staff writers 
 
 


 
PITTSBURG >>In response to a request from this newspaper, the Pittsburg police department released body

camera footage showing an officer shooting an Antioch man in a restaurant parking lot back in January. 

The nearly 18 minutes of audio and digital footage shows Terry Amons Jr., 43, being shot by Pittsburg officer

Dillon Tindall as Amons sits in a car in a Nations parking lot. Six shots are fired. Both officers, including the one

who fired, testified in an inquest hearing they thought Amons was reaching for a revolver found in the center

console of the car. 

A 20-second portion of the video shows Amons with both hands on the wheel, but then he lowers his right hand. As

Tindall opens the door, shouting, "Do not reach for that (expletive) gun" and "put your (expletive) hands up," Amons

raises his left hand and appears to grasp a glove in his lap with his right hand. The shots are fired moments later. 

"I'm not reaching for nothing," Amons can be heard saying, after he's shot. He then falls from the car as Tindall and

another officer continue to yell commands. 

A few seconds after Amons falls out of the car, he continues to say, "I wasn't reaching for nothing, I swear to God."

Tindall is heard calling for medical aid, and then they handcuff Amons. 

One officer then comments that Amons had gloves and asks if "he was going to 211" the Nations, referencing the

penal code for robbery. They are also heard telling Amons "stay with us" and to keep breathing, and he groans and

struggles to breathe. 

take the handcuffs off Amons. 

About two minutes and 30 seconds after the shooting, another officer arrives to provide medical aid and police

A roughly two-minute portion of the footage became publicly releasable under the state's transparency laws when

it was played in open court during a formal review of Amons' death, which occurs for all in-custody deaths

countywide. A month after this newspaper filed a records request for the short video, police elected to release the

18-minute audio/video compilation showing the shooting and its aftermath, and pictures of the revolver. 

A statement from Pittsburg police Friday said this was done "in an effort to be completely open with our

community." 

statement. 

Amons' actions. 

frankly." 

"We want to remind the public, this continues to be an emotionally painful and difficult situation for all involved

and our thoughts remain with Mr. Amons' family", Pittsburg Police Chief Brian Addington said in the written

The city of Pittsburg rejected a legal claim filed by Amons' family, their attorney John Burris said. They are

considering filing a lawsuit and will review the footage with a police tactics expert retained by Burris' firm, he said. 

Burris watched the footage Friday afternoon and said he thought the officer "seemed to panic" and misinterpret

"I must admit, I do not see (Amons) reaching for that gun. I see him playing around with gloves, but certainly not

reaching. He was trying to comply," Burris said. "I have reservations about the justification of this shooting,

During a June coroner's inquest hearing, Tindall testified he and another officer were called to the area because of

a report of a suspected drug deal. He and Officer Jesus Arellano approached both sides of Amons' car, and shots

were fired within 30 seconds of approaching. Amons was hit four times, and three wounds were considered fatal. 

"There was no doubt in my mind he was reaching at the firearm at that point," Tindall testified in June, saying he

believed Amons was "gearing up for something." He said he feared for his and the other officer's safety. 

A coroner's inquest jury ruled that Amons died "at the hands of another, other than by accident." The ruling is one

of four choices inquest juries are given, besides suicide, accident or natural causes. The decision carries no

Caption: PHOTO: PITTSBURG POLICE DEPARTMENT Pittsburg police have released officer body camera video

criminal nor civil liability. 

Contact Nate Gartrell at 925-779-7174. 

Credit: By Nate Gartrell, ngartrell@bayareanewsgroup.com 

Illustration 

showing an officer-involved shooting in January 2018. 
 
 



 
DANVILLE —Authorities in the San Francisco Bay Area have identified the officer and the shooting victim in a fatal

officer-involved shooting over the weekend. 

The East Bay Times reports Monday Contra Costa Sheriff's spokesman Jimmy Lee identified the shooting victim

as 33-year-old Laudemer Arboleda, of Newark, and said an autopsy will take place Tuesday. 

Lee identified as the officer as Deputy Andrew Hall. Hall has served with the department for five years and is

currently assigned to the city of Danville. 

He says police responded Saturday to a report from a resident of a suspicious person near downtown Danville. 

Lee says Laudemer drove away, leading officers on a short pursuit. He says Hall got out of the patrol car and

opened fire when the suspect accelerated toward him. 

___ 

Information from: East Bay Times, http://www.eastbaytimes.com 
 
 

Officer, suspect in fatal officer-involved - Associated Press State Wire:
California (CA) - November 5, 2018
November 5, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: California (CA)

DANVILLE, Calif. (AP) — Authorities in the San Francisco Bay area have identified the officer and
the shooting victim in a fatal officer-involved shooting over the weekend.

T he East Bay Times reports Monday Contra Costa Sheriff's spokesman Jimmy Lee identified the
shooting victim as 33-year-old Laudemer Arboleda
place T uesday.

Laudemer Arboleda , of Newark, and said an autopsy will take

Lee identified as the officer as Deputy Andrew Hall. Hall has served with the department for five
years and is currently assigned to the city of Danville.

He says police responded Saturday to a report from a resident of a suspicious person near
downtown Danville.

Lee says Laudemer drove away, leading officers on a short pursuit. He says Hall got out of the
patrol car and opened fire when the suspect accelerated toward him.

___

Information from: East Bay T imes, http://www.eastbaytimes.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 


 
Lawyers for the family of a man fatally shot by police in Danville earlier this month said Monday they plan to file a

wrongful death lawsuit against the city. 

Civil rights attorney John Burris said said at a news conference that Contra Costa County sheriff's deputy Sheriff

Andrew Hall was reckless and negligent when he shot into a moving car on Nov. 3, fatally wounding 33-year-old

Laudemer Arboleda of Newark. 

chose "death over life." 

"The officer was easily in a position of safety if he wanted to be. He chose to shoot into that car, when he could

have easily avoided any type of incident with the car," Burris said, adding that officers involved in the incident

Police said officers responded to a citizen's call about a "suspicious person" just after 11 a.m. on Nov. 3 near

Cottage Place and Laurel Drive. The caller said a man got out of a car, walked toward several homes with bags in

his hands, then returned to his car and circled the neighborhood. 

When officers arrived and found the person, later identified as Arboleda, he refused orders to stop and drove away,

police said in a statement. 

out of their patrol vehicles, police said. 

During an ensuing car pursuit, Arboleda pulled over twice as if preparing to stop, then drove away as officers got

Near Front Street and Diablo Road, police said Arboleda accelerated his car toward an officer. Fearing he was

about to be hit, Hall fired his gun several times at the vehicle, according to police. Arboleda was struck and taken

soon after to San Ramon Regional Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead. 

Burris said the officers were overzealous when they tried to box in Arboleda's vehicle with theirs, and that Hall

could have simply moved out of the car's way instead of shooting into it. 

"(Arboleda) was on Front Street driving slow, he tries to make the turn, the police officers' cars jump in front of him

like a roadblock, like this was a massive murder case they were seeking," he said at the press conference, held

after Arboleda's funeral in Fremont with family members present. 

"We have a witness who said that the car was moving slowly and that he was trying to move away, and that there

didn't appear to be any reason why the police would shoot into the car," Burris said. 

Burris showed copies of photos of Arboleda's car, with seven bullet holes in the windshield on the passenger side.

Burris said the pattern of holes indicate Hall was in a position to easily move out of the path. 

"Creating a dangerous situation when the person hadn't done anything dangerous," Burris said. "That is poor

policing, poor tactics, negligence, and reckless conduct on the part of those officers." 

Burris said Arboleda had been staying with his mother in Fremont and may have been headed to the Danville

neighborhood to seek new housing. 

to have been a factor in the shooting, Burris said. 

In the past year or so, Arboleda had been dealing with some mental health struggles, though that does not appear

"He wasn't harassing anyone, he wasn't knocking on doors where people were disturbed. He was just a man, a

Filipino man, a brown-complected man, a colored man, in a neighborhood that's predominantly white," Burris said. 

"And that's why this rush to judgement, this rush to use deadly force is so appalling, when you didn't have any

underlying information of any crime that had been committed," Burris said. 

The Contra Costa County Sheriff's Office, which contracts with Danville to staff the city's police department, is

pushing back, saying Arboleda put officers in danger. 

"This is a tragic case, yet once again John Burris is reaching for his well-worn race card," Sheriff David Livingston

said in an emailed statement Monday. 

"This is not about race. This is about a dangerous and reckless person trying to run down and murder a police

officer. Once all investigations are completed, we look forward to sharing the full details with the public," he said. 

Burris also said a lawyer for Hall has been allowed to see video from police car dash cameras and body-worn

cameras showing the incident, but requests by Arboleda's family to see the same videos have been denied. 

"There's no reason, in the interest of transparency of fairness, for the police officer's lawyer to see the video and

get his description, and the family not able to see the same video," he said. 

At the conference, members of Arboleda's family spoke briefly to the media. 

"We love Laudemer," Jessica Leong, Arboleda's niece, said. "Despite his struggles with mental illness, he was a kind

and generous man." She asked anyone with more information about the incident to contact them. 

This case is being investigated by the Danville Police Department, Contra Costa County Office of the Sheriff, and

Alameda County District Attorney's Office authorities said. 

Contact Joseph Geha at 408-707-1292.  

CREDIT: By Joseph Geha, jgeha@bayareanewsgroup.com 
 
 

Officer shooting at moving car criticized - San Francisco Chronicle (CA)
- November 9, 2018 - page A1
November 9, 2018 | San Francisco Chronicle (CA) | Evan Sernoffsky and Michael Cabanatuan | Page A1

When a Danville police officer fatally shot a fleeing driver near that city's downtown last weekend,
department officials quickly said the officer opened fire out of fear that the vehicle would run him
down.

But experts on police use of force say there's rarely a good reason for an officer to shoot into a
moving vehicle - an action that has grown increasingly controversial because it may unnecessarily
take a life while turning the vehicle into an uncontrolled missile.

Instead of turning to deadly force, these experts point to another option: moving out of the path
of the vehicle.

"It's not brain science," said Geoffrey Alpert, a professor of criminology and criminal justice at the
University of South Carolina who has been researching police tactics for decades. "Get out of the
way."

T he encounter in the affluent East Bay suburb of Danville happened Saturday morning and is under
investigation. Officer Andrew Hall, a five-year department veteran, shot Laudemer Arboleda
33-year-old Newark resident, as the driver fled police through city streets, officials said.

Laudemer Arboleda , a

Arboleda, who was pronounced dead at a hospital, had no apparent criminal history. And police
have not said he was suspected of a crime at the time officers responded last weekend. T here is
no indication that Arboleda was armed.

"T here were no reports about him committing a crime, and now you have a person who is dead
because they want to talk to him," said Adante Pointer, an attorney hired by Arboleda's family. He
said Arboleda did accounting and billing work for companies including Amazon, and had recently
struggled with mental health issues.

"Bad police work is what it seems like, beginning to end," Pointer said.

But attorney Michael Rains, who is representing other Danville officers in the incident - and has
reviewed some video depicting it - said there "was very clearly an attempt to hit the officer at a
very significant rate of speed."

T he Contra Costa County Sheriff's Office, which contracts with the town of Danville to staff its
police force, has not responded this week to questions about the investigation. Ultimately, the
county district attorney's office will have to decide if the shooting was justified or merits criminal
charges.

T he incident began when police got a call about a man acting suspiciously near Cottage Lane and
Laurel Drive around 11 a.m., officials said. T he reporting party said Arboleda exited his car, walked
toward several homes with bags in his hands, returned to his car and circled the neighborhood, said
Jimmy Lee, a sheriff's spokesman.

As officers pulled up, Arboleda fled in his silver Honda sedan, prompting a chase. He pulled over
twice, Lee said, as if to surrender, but sped off when officers got out of their patrol vehicles. At
Front Street and Diablo Road, Arboleda "steered his vehicle toward an officer and accelerated his
vehicle," Lee said.

He said Hall "was in immediate fear that he was going to be run over by the suspect's vehicle and
fired his weapon at the driver of the vehicle."

T he officers involved in the chase and shooting were wearing cameras, and their cars were
outfitted with dashboard cameras, said Geoff Gillette, a spokesman for Danville.

Police and prosecutors will review the video as part of their investigation, the results of which will be
presented during a coroner's inquest, a public hearing in which a jury determines the manner of
death, which has yet to be scheduled.

Rains, the officers' attorney, said Arboleda "probably didn't know where he was, and was clearly
disoriented." In their earlier efforts to get him to stop, officers approached the vehicle in a "low-
key" manner, approaching the car from the front and waiving their hands, he said.

Finally, Rains said, Hall and another officer tried to box Arboleda in, with their patrol cruisers facing
the Honda side by side. But Arboleda accelerated through the gap between the vehicles, the
attorney said, and headed toward Hall, who opened fire.

"We know the car didn't strike Hall, but it came close," Rains said. "My suspicion is the direction of
the car changed, and Officer Hall took measures to avoid being struck, which all occurred
simultaneously. Within seconds this has to happen or Hall would have been struck."

After Arboleda was shot, his vehicle continued on, crashing farther down the road.

T he Sheriff's Office does not have a policy explicitly prohibiting deputies from shooting at moving
vehicles, Rains said.

However, many law enforcement agencies around the country do have such policies. In San
Francisco, officers are barred from shooting at the driver of a moving vehicle unless that driver is a
threat due to a gun or a weapon other than the vehicle.

Still, San Francisco's policy includes language allowing for an "exceptional circumstance," and notes
that shootings are reviewed "on a case-by-case basis." T he exemption theoretically would allow
officers to fire in situations such as where a driver is intentionally plowing through a crowd.

San Francisco passed its policy after a recommendation by the Department of Justice following
several controversial police killings, which included unarmed drivers being shot while fleeing police.

Similar policies have spread among major departments since the first was adopted in New York in
1972, said Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, an
independent group in Washington, D.C.

"T hat's become the gold standard over time," he said.

T he policy dissuades officers from standing in front of a speeding vehicle and ordering the driver
to halt - like in a movie, he said - and reduces the number of police shootings overall.

"It has saved the lives of officers, who don't stand in front of a car, and it's saved the people in the
car," Wexler said. "It's been a win-win situation. Why some departments don't recognize that is
puzzling."

Kent Scheidegger, legal director of the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation, a tough-on-crime
nonprofit group in Sacramento, disagrees. He said policies restricting officers from shooting at
vehicles can potentially lead to officers getting injured or worse.

"If a guy's bearing down on you, about to run you down, the officer has no choice," he said. "It
illustrates the fact that you can't have simplistic rules that cover every aspect of the situation."

“We know the car didn’t strike Hall, but it came close. ... T he direction of the car changed, and
Officer Hall took measures to avoid being struck.”

Michael Rains, attorney for police officers

Michael Rains, attorney for police officers

(c) San Francisco Chronicle 2018

 

 
Lawyers for the family of a man fatally shot by police in Danville earlier this month said Monday they plan to file a

wrongful death lawsuit against the city. 

Civil rights attorney John Burris said at a news conference that Contra Costa County sheriff's Deputy Andrew Hall

was reckless and negligent when he shot into a moving car on Nov. 3, fatally wounding 33-year-old Laudemer

Arboleda of Newark. 

chose "death over life." 

"The officer was easily in a position of safety if he wanted to be. He chose to shoot into that car, when he could

have easily avoided any type of incident with the car," Burris said, adding that officers involved in the incident

Police said officers responded to a citizen's call about a "suspicious person" just after 11 a.m. Nov. 3 near Cottage

Place and Laurel Drive. The caller said a man got out of a car, walked toward several homes with bags in his hands,

then returned to his car and circled the neighborhood. 

When officers arrived and found the person, later identified as Arboleda, he refused orders to stop and drove away,

police said in a statement. 

out of their patrol vehicles, police said. 

During an ensuing car pursuit, Arboleda pulled over twice as if preparing to stop, then drove away as officers got

Near Front Street and Diablo Road, police said Arboleda accelerated his car toward an officer. Fearing he was

about to be hit, Hall fired his gun several times at the vehicle, according to police. Arboleda was struck and taken

soon after to San Ramon Regional Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead. 

Burris said the officers were overzealous when they tried to box in Arboleda's vehicle with theirs, and that Hall

could have simply moved out of the car's way instead of shooting into it. 

"(Arboleda) was on Front Street driving slow, he tries to make the turn, the police officers' cars jump in front of him

like a roadblock, like this was a massive murder case they were seeking," he said at the news conference, held after

Arboleda's funeral in Fremont with family members present. 

"We have a witness who said that the car was moving slowly and that he was trying to move away, and that there

didn't appear to be any reason why the police would shoot into the car," Burris said. 

Burris showed copies of photos of Arboleda's car, with seven bullet holes in the windshield on the passenger side.

Burris said the pattern of holes indicate Hall was in a position to easily move out of the path. 

"Creating a dangerous situation when the person hadn't done anything dangerous," Burris said. "That is poor

policing, poor tactics, negligence and reckless conduct on the part of those officers." 

Burris said Arboleda had been staying with his mother in Fremont and may have been headed to the Danville

neighborhood to seek new housing. 

to have been a factor in the shooting, Burris said. 

In the past year or so, Arboleda had been dealing with some mental health struggles, though that does not appear

"He wasn't harassing anyone, he wasn't knocking on doors where people were disturbed. He was just a man, a

Filipino man, a brown-complected man, a colored man, in a neighborhood that's predominantly white," Burris said. 

"And that's why this rush to judgment, this rush to use deadly force is so appalling, when you didn't have any

underlying information of any crime that had been committed," Burris said. 

The Contra Costa County Sheriff's Office, which contracts with Danville to staff the city's police department, is

pushing back, saying Arboleda put officers in danger. 

"This is a tragic case, yet once again John Burris is reaching for his well-worn race card," Sheriff David Livingston

said in an emailed statement Monday. 

"This is not about race. This is about a dangerous and reckless person trying to run down and murder a police

officer. Once all investigations are completed, we look forward to sharing the full details with the public," he said. 

Burris also said a lawyer for Hall has been allowed to see video from police car dashcams and body-worn cameras

showing the incident, but requests by Arboleda's family to see the same videos have been denied. 

"There's no reason, in the interest of transparency of fairness, for the police officer's lawyer to see the video and

get his description, and the family not able to see the same video," he said. 

At the news conference, members of Arboleda's family spoke briefly to the media. 

"We love Laudemer," said Jessica Leong, Arboleda's niece. "Despite his struggles with mental illness, he was a kind

and generous man." She asked anyone with more information about the incident to contact them. 

This case is being investigated by the Danville Police Department, Contra Costa County Office of the Sheriff, and

Alameda County District Attorney's Office authorities said. 

Contact Joseph Geha at 408-707-1292.  

CREDIT: By Joseph Geha, jgeha@bayareanewsgroup.com 
 
 

Newark man, 33, IDd as driver killed by Danville - San Francisco
Chronicle (CA) - November 5, 2018 - page C2
November 5, 2018 | San Francisco Chronicle (CA) | Evan Sernoffsky | Page C2

A man shot dead Saturday by police in downtown Danville was identified as a 33-year-old Newark
resident, officials said Sunday.

Laudemer Arboleda , 33, was shot while behind the wheel of his car after a police chase through
Laudemer Arboleda
the quaint East Bay town.

T he officer who fired the fatal shots was identified as Andrew Hall, a five-year veteran of the force.

Danville police, who contract with the Contra Costa County Sheriff's Office, responded to a call
about a suspicious person near Cottage Lane and Laurel Drive around 11 a.m., officials said.

A citizen told police that a person had exited his vehicle, walked toward several homes with bags in
his hands, and then went back to his car and circled the neighborhood, said Jimmy Lee, a
spokesman for the sheriff's office.

When officers got to the scene, the man later identified as Arboleda "ignored commands to stop
and led officers on a pursuit," Lee said.

Arboleda pulled over twice as if he was going to surrender but fled when officers got out of their
patrol vehicles, officials said.

At the intersection of Front Street and Diablo Road, Arboleda "steered his vehicle toward an officer
and accelerated his vehicle," Lee said.

Hall opened fire on the driver, striking him at least once.

"T he officer was in immediate fear that he was going to be run over by the suspect's vehicle and
fired his weapon at the driver of the vehicle," Lee said.

Paramedics took Arboleda to San Ramon Regional Medical Center, where he was pronounced
dead.

T he incident was the first police shooting in Danville since August 2001, officials said.

(c) San Francisco Chronicle 2018

 

 
DANVILLE >>The Contra Costa Sheriff's Office has identified the officer and the shooting victim in a fatal officer-

Sheriff's spokesman Jimmy Lee identified the shooting victim Sunday as Laudemer Arboleda, 33, of Newark, and

involved shooting Saturday. 

said an autopsy will take place Tuesday. 

currently assigned to the city of Danville. 

Place and Laurel Drive. 

to his car and circle the neighborhood. 

The officer was identified as Deputy Sheriff Andrew Hall. Hall has served with the department for five years and is

According to a statement Sunday, police responded to a citizen's call shortly after 11 a.m. Saturday near Cottage

The caller said they saw a person get out of a vehicle, walk toward several homes with bags in his hands, go back

When officers arrived and found the person, identified as Arboleda, he refused orders to stop and drove away. 

During a chase that followed, Arboledea allegedly pulled over twice as if preparing to stop, then drove away as

officers got out of their patrol vehicles, police said. 

At Front Street and Diablo Road, Arboleda accelerated his car toward an officer, police said. Fearing he was about

to be struck, Hall fired his gun several times at the vehicle. 

Arboleda was struck and taken soon after to San Ramon Regional Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead. 

Danville police, the sheriff's office and the Contra Costa district attorney's office are jointly investigating the

shooting, and that investigation's findings will go before a coroner's inquest where a jury will determine a manner

of death. 

Anyone with information should call the sheriff's investigation division at 925-313-2600, e-mail

tips@so.cccounty.us or call 866-846-3592 to leave an anonymous voicemail. 

Contact George Kelly at 510-208-6488.  

CREDIT: By George Kelly, gkelly@bayareanewsgroup.com 
 
 

Mother accuses Danville police of shooting man - San Francisco
Chronicle (CA) - November 20, 2018 - page C1
November 20, 2018 | San Francisco Chronicle (CA) | Michael Cabanatuan | Page C1

T he mother of a man shot to death behind the wheel of his car by Danville police has filed a claim
against the city that alleges "his only crime was being the wrong skin color in Danville."

Attorney John Burris made that statement in a claim his office filed Friday with the Danville city
attorney's office. T he claim, which California requires to be filed and denied before a lawsuit can be
filed against a government agency, seeks in excess of $25,000; it was filed on behalf of Jeannie
Laudemer Arboleda .
Atienza, the mother of Laudemer Arboleda

Arboleda, 33, of Newark was shot to death Nov. 3 in the affluent East Bay suburb by Danville police
officer Andrew Hall, a five-year veteran of the force. Authorities said Hall feared that Arboleda was
trying to run him down in an escape attempt.

T he shooting has raised questions about the controversial practice of police firing on moving
vehicles. Such tactics are banned in many cities, including San Francisco.

Police said they received a call about 11 a.m. of someone acting suspiciously and walking toward
several homes with bags in his hands. When officers approached Arboleda, police said, he fled in his
silver Honda sedan. He pulled over twice, authorities said, as if to surrender, before driving away.
But at Front Street and Diablo Road, Arboleda allegedly veered toward officers approaching his car
on foot.

Burris released a statement saying Arboleda had not committed a crime or an infraction, and the
attorney said a witness has come forward to contradict the Police Department's account of the
incident. Arboleda was trying to drive slowly around a police cruiser and not attempting to strike
Hall, Burris said.

Hall "recklessly decided to deprive Mr. Arboleda of his life when he had no information that he had
committed any crime," Burris said. "T he officer had an option but chose death over life."

Contra Costa County Sheriff David Livingston released a statement slamming Burris for playing the
"race card" and called Arboleda "dangerous and reckless."

"T his is a tragic case, yet once again John Burris is reaching for his well-worn race card. T his is not
about race. T his is about a dangerous and reckless person trying to run down and murder a police
officer. Once all investigations are completed, we look forward to sharing the full details with the
public," Livingston said.

Burris said the lack of a ban on shooting at moving cars runs contrary to "recommended police
practices" and Department of Justice guidelines.

T he claim alleges wrongful death, negligence and negligent hiring and training. It seeks an
unspecified amount of money for general damages, including pain, suffering and emotional
distress, as well as medical and related expenses.

“T his is not about race. T his is about a dangerous and reckless person trying to run down and
murder a police officer.

David Livingston, Contra Costa County sheriff

David Livingston, Contra Costa County sheriff

(c) San Francisco Chronicle 2018

 
FAMILY PLANS TO FILE LAWSUIT AGAINST CITY OVER - Mercury News,
The (San Jose, CA) - November 20, 2018 - page 8B
November 20, 2018 | Mercury News, The (San Jose, CA) | Joseph Geha, jgeha@bayareanewsgroup.com |
Page 8B

Lawyers for the family of a man fatally shot by police in Danville earlier this month said Monday
they plan to file a wrongful death lawsuit against the city.

Civil rights attorney John Burris said at a news conference that Contra Costa County sheriff's
Deputy Andrew Hall was reckless and negligent when he shot into a moving car on Nov. 3, fatally
wounding 33-year-old Laudemer Arboleda

Laudemer Arboleda  of Newark.

"T he officer was easily in a position of safety if he wanted to be. He chose to shoot into that car,
when he could have easily avoided any type of incident with the car," Burris said, adding that
officers involved in the incident chose "death over life."

Police said officers responded to a citizen's call about a "suspicious person" just after 11 a.m. Nov.
3 near Cottage Place and Laurel Drive. T he caller said a man got out of a car, walked toward
several homes with bags in his hands, then returned to his car and circled the neighborhood.

When officers arrived and found the person, later identified as Arboleda, he refused orders to stop
and drove away, police said in a statement.

During an ensuing car pursuit, Arboleda pulled over twice as if preparing to stop, then drove away
as officers got out of their patrol vehicles, police said.

Near Front Street and Diablo Road, police said Arboleda accelerated his car toward an officer.
Fearing he was about to be hit, Hall fired his gun several times at the vehicle, according to police.
Arboleda was struck and taken soon after to San Ramon Regional Medical Center, where he was
pronounced dead.

Burris said the officers were overzealous when they tried to box in Arboleda's vehicle with theirs,
and that Hall could have simply moved out of the car's way instead of shooting into it.

"(Arboleda) was on Front Street driving slow, he tries to make the turn, the police officers' cars
jump in front of him like a roadblock, like this was a massive murder case they were seeking," he
said at the news conference, held after Arboleda's funeral in Fremont with family members
present.

"We have a witness who said that the car was moving slowly and that he was trying to move away,
and that there didn't appear to be any reason why the police would shoot into the car," Burris said.

Burris showed copies of photos of Arboleda's car, with seven bullet holes in the windshield on the

passenger side. Burris said the pattern of holes indicate Hall was in a position to easily move out of
the path.

"Creating a dangerous situation when the person hadn't done anything dangerous," Burris said.
"T hat is poor policing, poor tactics, negligence and reckless conduct on the part of those officers."

Burris said Arboleda had been staying with his mother in Fremont and may have been headed to
the Danville neighborhood to seek new housing.

In the past year or so, Arboleda had been dealing with some mental health struggles, though that
does not appear to have been a factor in the shooting, Burris said.

"He wasn't harassing anyone, he wasn't knocking on doors where people were disturbed. He was
just a man, a Filipino man, a brown-complected man, a colored man, in a neighborhood that's
predominantly white," Burris said.

"And that's why this rush to judgment, this rush to use deadly force is so appalling, when you didn't
have any underlying information of any crime that had been committed," Burris said.

T he Contra Costa County Sheriff's Office, which contracts with Danville to staff the city's police
department, is pushing back, saying Arboleda put officers in danger.

"T his is a tragic case, yet once again John Burris is reaching for his well-worn race card," Sheriff
David Livingston said in an emailed statement Monday.

"T his is not about race. T his is about a dangerous and reckless person trying to run down and
murder a police officer. Once all investigations are completed, we look forward to sharing the full
details with the public," he said.

Burris also said a lawyer for Hall has been allowed to see video from police car dashcams and
body-worn cameras showing the incident, but requests by Arboleda's family to see the same
videos have been denied.

"T here's no reason, in the interest of transparency of fairness, for the police officer's lawyer to see
the video and get his description, and the family not able to see the same video," he said.

At the news conference, members of Arboleda's family spoke briefly to the media.

"We love Laudemer," said Jessica Leong, Arboleda's niece. "Despite his struggles with mental
illness, he was a kind and generous man." She asked anyone with more information about the
incident to contact them.

T his case is being investigated by the Danville Police Department, Contra Costa County Office of
the Sheriff, and Alameda County District Attorney's Office authorities said.

Contact Joseph Geha at 408-707-1292.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Mercury News

 


 
As the family of Emantic Bradford Jr. continues to demand answers from Hoover police, the department Monday

issued another correction of an earlier report -- this time, that Bradford had "brandished" a gun when a policeman

killed him at an Alabama mall. 

"Earlier, we stated that Mr. Bradford 'brandished' a gun," the statement on Facebook said, without providing details

on how Bradford was holding the gun. "To clarify, the word 'brandish' was used because Mr. Bradford had a gun in

his hand as police officers responded to the active shooter situation between mall patrons." 

Brandish typically means to wave a weapon in a threatening manner. The statement provided no additional detail

as to how Bradford was holding his weapon. 

Hoover police initially said Bradford shot a 12- and an 18-year-old in the Birmingham suburb's Riverchase Galleria

and that an officer killed him as he fled. Police later changed the story, saying witnesses and forensic tests

indicated that while Bradford may have been involved in an altercation at the mall, he likely did not fire the rounds

that injured the victims. 

the department. 

Monday morning's update did nothing to clarify that clarification and did not provide much else in the way of new

information, despite Bradford's family and civil rights attorney Ben Crump leveling a series of accusations against

Among them: The officer who killed the 21-year-old never issued a warning before opening fire on Bradford, who

had a concealed weapon permit, Crump said. 

The shooter remains at large, the Hoover police statement said, and all pertinent departments are cooperating with

the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency, which is leading the investigation. Hoover police have referred CNN's

questions to ALEA. 

The shooter has not been identified, nor has the officer who was working as mall security when he killed Bradford.

The officer is on administrative leave, police previously said. 

"We all want answers and we believe that with patience and focus, the truth will be firmly established," Monday's

police statement said. 

'Emantic's Life Matters' 

hands. 

Bradford Jr.," the mayor said. 

enforcement. 

It's still unclear whether police believe Bradford was involved in any altercation before he was shot. 

Hoover Mayor Frank Brocato asked for patience with the investigation, which he said is now out of the city's

"We want to stress that we're deeply and sincerely sympathetic to the family and friends of Mr. Emantic Fitzgerald

Brocato said authorities are in the process of meeting with the Bradford family. Bradford's parents have previously

complained that no one from Hoover has reached out to them, even though his dad has a background in law

ALEA has "certain information" about the alleged shooter and is asking the public to help them make arrest, the

mayor said. The state agency has footage of that night and will determine when it will be released, he said. As of

Tuesday morning, authorities had released no information about or description of the suspect. 

"We have to trust the justice process and we plead your patience in that," the mayor said. 

On Monday night, protesters marched into the mall, to where Bradford, who friends and family knew as EJ, was

shot. 

"Ain't going let Hoover police turn me around, turn me around, turn me around," they sang. 

Protesters, including a family member, locked arms at one point and chanted "EJ." They stood at the spot where

Bradford was shot and accused the police of lying. Again, they chanted, "EJ," and observed a movement of silence. 

One protestor held a sign that said, "Emantic's Life Matters." 

Rush to judgment? 

Crump said Bradford was trying to help victims to safety when he was shot. After the shooting, police provided the

young man with no medical assistance, the attorney said. 

Photos and videos from the scene show a man on the ground outside a shoe store on an upper floor, bleeding

heavily onto the mall's cream tile floor. Several police are in the area, including officers who appear to handcuff a

man nearby. 

"He saw a black man with a gun, and he made his determination that he must be a criminal," Crump said Sunday,

flanked by about two dozen of Bradford's relatives. 

"They concluded their investigation while EJ was (lying) on the mall floor, bleeding out, dying. ... There's a murderer

on the loose largely because police rushed to judgment." 

'There was blood on her shirt' 

Alabama Army National Guardsman Rashad Billingsley, 18, was at the mall with his cousin and two friends when

the shooting erupted. 

Billingsley, who lives in Ashland. 

"I got down for cover. I heard two shots, then a 3- to 5-second pause and another two or three more gunshots," said

Billingsley ran to the hallway where he saw the 12-year-old girl victim, "walking in the hallway, complaining her

back hurt. There was blood on her shirt," he said. 

The victim didn't know she had been shot until she overheard her grandmother telling her mother over the phone,

he said. She started to panic. 

Billingsley asked a police officer to hand him a T-shirt from a clothing rack, he said. Relying on his medical training,

he used the T-shirt to stop the bleeding and apply pressure to the wound until paramedics arrived. 

Once the victim was carted out, Billingsley and the victim's sister walked past a body on the way out of the mall, he

said. Billingsley put his arm up to keep her from seeing it. 

'He was not a killer' 

Bradford's parents knew their son wasn't the shooter, Crump said. "They knew it wasn't true even before the police

retracted their statement," the attorney said. 

Bradford's father, who spent 25 years as a correctional officer and is battling cancer, has blasted the Hoover Police

Department, saying no one has reached out to him with details of his son's death. He is demanding investigators

immediately release all video of the incident. 

In a CNN interview Monday, his mother, April Pipkins, said that because her son was shot in the face, she's not sure

if she will ever be able to see him again. It's not clear if the family can hold an open-casket funeral, she said. 

"My Thanksgiving will never be the same. I will never be able to see my son's face again or to look into his eyes or

to hear him say, 'Mom, I love you,'" she said. "Not even knowing if I'll be able to have an open casket, to see him

again. I am just at a loss of words right now." 

mother financially. 

Bradford had no criminal record, Crump said. He was a caretaker to his father, worked full time and helped his

"My son was a loving -- very loving -- young man. He would give any of you the shirt off his back," Pipkins told

reporters Sunday. "He loved people, period. He was not a killer." 

 
 

4/16/2019

Alabama Cops Say Man They Killed After Mall Shooting Was 'Likely' Not The Gunman | HuffPost

Police initially told reporters they thought Bradford had shot the teen after a ﬁght but retracted that 

statement Friday night.

“New evidence now suggests that while Mr. Bradford may have been involved in some aspect of the 

altercation, he likely did not ﬁre the rounds that injured the 18-year-old victim,” Hoover Police 

Captain Gregg Rector said in a statement.

Police said they “regret that our initial media release was not totally accurate.”

Rector said investigators now believe that more than two people were involved in the initial ﬁght 

ahead of the shooting, and that “at least one gunman” is still at large who could be responsible for 

the shooting of an 18-year-old male and 12-year-old female.

Video posted on social media by shoppers showed a chaotic scene as shoppers ﬂed the mall, which 

closed for the remainder of Thursday night.

The Alabama Law Enforcement Agency has taken the lead role in the investigation since it is an 

Hoover police asked for anyone with information, photos or video evidence of this crime scene to 

A witness, Lexi Joiner, told Al.com she was shopping with her mother when the gunﬁre started. 

Joiner said she heard six or seven shots and was ordered, along with some other shoppers, into a 

oﬃcer-involved shooting.

please contact investigators.

supply closet for cover.

“It was terrifying,” Joiner said.

A woman who described herself as the mother of the injured 12-year-old posted on social media 

that the girl was on a Black Friday shopping trip with other family members when the shooting 

happened, and didn’t immediately realize that the pain in her back was from a bullet.

“She was hurting a lot, but very brave and positive as always,” the mother wrote after seeing the girl 

when she arrived at a hospital.

Hoover police said Friday morning that the girl was in stable condition.

The oﬃcer who shot the gunman was placed on administrative leave while the authorities 

investigate the shooting. The oﬃcer’s name was not released. The oﬃcers were not hurt.

The Riverchase Galleria mall bills itself as the largest enclosed shopping center in Alabama, with 
more than 150 stores.


Alabama Cops Say Man They Killed After Mall Shooti…

   



https://www.huffpost.com/entry/alabama-mall-shooting-hunman_n_5bf9a93de4b03b230fa2132f?ncid=txtlnkusaolp00000616

2/4

 

 
A black man killed by the police in an Alabama mall in November was shot three times from behind, according to a

forensic examination commissioned by the man’s family. 

The finding, announced in a news conference on Monday, was seen by the man’s family and lawyers as evidence

he was running away and posed no threat to the officer who shot him. 

Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr., 21, was fatally shot in the middle of a panicked crowd at the Riverchase Galleria in

Hoover, Ala., on Nov. 22, as officers responded to reports of gunshots on Thanksgiving night. Witnesses said Mr.

Bradford, who was legally carrying a handgun, was directing shoppers to safety. 

But the authorities publicly identified him as the gunman, an initial misidentification they retracted a day later. The

shooting and its aftermath have ignited protests in Hoover, a predominantly white suburb about 10 miles south of

The Rev. Jesse Jackson opened the Monday news conference with a prayer. Mr. Bradford’s father, Emantic

Bradford Sr., said the officer should be charged with homicide. 

“You’re a coward,” the elder Mr. Bradford said, addressing the unnamed police officer. “What you have done is

The forensic examination indicated Mr. Bradford was shot in his back, the back of his head and the back of his

“All of these shots were potentially kill shots,” said Ben Crump, the Bradford family’s lawyer. 

The police have not released video of the shooting. In a statement on Monday, Nick Derzis, the Hoover police chief,

said the law enforcement authorities had advised them that releasing the video too early could compromise the

“While we maintain our commitment to be fully transparent during this process, we must respect the Alabama Law

Enforcement Agency’s request for full cooperation and continue to have faith in the judicial process,” he said. “We

want the whole truth, unimpeded and not delayed.” 

Patience may be wearing thin. A Hoover City Council meeting was adjourned Monday night after protesters

repeatedly shouted “E.J.,” the name Mr. Bradford was commonly known by, and “no justice, no peace,” according

to The Associated Press. 

Mr. Crump said the family found it difficult to trust the authorities about waiting to release the video “after they

were lied to before.” Mr. Jackson suggested that any delay in publicly airing the footage would not serve justice. 

“Until the tapes are released, it’s a cover-up,” Mr. Jackson said on Monday. 

Days after the shooting, the police arrested the man who they said fired the initial shots that caused the panic in

the mall: Erron Martez Dequan Brown, 20. They charged him with attempted murder. 

“The Council wants to formally express their regret for the misinformation provided to the public that later

Birmingham. 

destroy my family.” 

neck. 

investigation. 

implicated E.J. Bradford, Jr. as the shooter in the November 22nd incident of violence,” the council said in a

statement on Monday. 

Credit: Daniel Victor 
 
 


 
After dozens of people fled a Thanksgiving evening shooting inside an Alabama mall —stampeding through the

food court and hiding inside stores —one woman told reporters that she said a prayer as she ran: "Give the police

wisdom and accuracy of shots." 

At first, it seemed the prayer was answered. Police in Hoover soon announced they had secured the Riverchase

Galleria and killed the gunman, whom they named as 21-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr. 

Speaking to reporters who were outside the mall, police said Bradford shot a teenager during a fight near the food

court, wounded a 12-year-old girl with a stray bullet and brandished his pistol at the uniformed officer who killed

him. "Thank God we had our officers very close," Police Chief Nick Derzis told AL.com. "They heard the gunfire, they

engaged the subject, and they took out the threat." 

The next day it become clear that police missed something. 

As Black Friday crowds streamed through the mall in the morning, a reporter with Fox affiliate WBRC posted a

photo of a pistol lying on the floor of the Santa's Village display. 

In the evening, police released a statement: "We regret that our initial media release was not totally accurate, but

new evidence indicates that it was not." 

The statement said, "New evidence now suggests that while Mr. Bradford may have been involved in some aspect

of the altercation, he likely did not fire the rounds that injured the 18-year-old victim. This information indicates

that there is at least one gunman still at-large." 

Police, who claimed earlier that Bradford had threatened responding officers with a pistol, said other people

appeared to be involved in the shooting. They say at least one of those people apparently escaped while Bradford

died on the concourse outside a shoe store, surrounded by officers. 

"They were so quick to rush to judgment," Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Sr., the deceased's father, told the

Associated Press from his home near Birmingham on Saturday, after protesters marched through the mall,

demanding to know why police killed a black man who may not have had anything to do with the shooting. 

"That was not his character at all," Bradford's mother, April Pipkins, told the New York Times. 

The police department did not respond over the weekend to questions about whether Bradford had a role in the

shooting and about the search for the person who shot the teen and the girl. The Alabama Law Enforcement

Agency, which has taken over the investigation, planned to release a statement on Sunday. 

Bradford had posted on Facebook photos of himself in an Army uniform. He described himself as a combat

engineer. A spokesman for the Army, however, told The Washington Post that he "never completed advanced

individual training" and so did not serve. An attorney for Bradford's family said he had been honorably discharged

from the Army. 

He lived just outside Birmingham, a few miles from the mall where he was shot. 

"He was a super sweet, funny, kind and good-hearted young man who never had a bad word to say to anyone," his

former Catholic high school teacher Carl Dean told the Hoover Sun. 

About an hour before the shooting, Bradford had posted on Facebook a photo of him posing in a doorway wearing

the shredded jeans and T-shirt in which he would die. Digital scribbles on the photo obscure his left hand, in which

he appears to be holding something. 

Bradford's parents and a family attorney say he had a concealed-handgun license, which is not unusual in

Alabama. The Galleria, which advertises itself as the state's largest indoor mall, prohibits firearms on site,

according to its website. But state law is broadly permissive of gun rights, according to AL.com, and it's unclear

whether the mall has the public signs and security measures that are required for businesses to enforce a firearm

ban. 

The first volley of gunfire broke out on the second floor of the mall shortly before 10 p.m., according to police and

witness accounts. Cellphone videos show people fleeing through the food court, knocking over a cash register and

cowering in employee backrooms. 

An unidentified 18-year-old was shot and reported to be in serious condition at a hospital. A 12-year-old girl

standing nearby was struck in the back by a stray bullet, her mother wrote on Facebook. A military medic used a

shirt from a rack at a nearby store to stop her bleeding. She is expected to recover. 

In this chaos, AL.com reported, "several shoppers were seen with their guns drawn." 

It is unclear where Bradford was during the shooting. Two uniformed police officers working as security guards

intercepted him in front of a shoe store on the second level, where a photo posted online shows him lying on the

tile with blood pooled around his head. 

"While moving toward the shooting scene, one of the officers encountered a suspect brandishing a pistol and shot

him," police said in a statement written immediately after the shooting. In a revised statement, they said Bradford

was fatally shot while "fleeing the shooting scene while brandishing a handgun." 

In videos taken outside the shoe store, shoppers watch in astonishment. 

"That boy didn't shoot at nobody. He's dead!" a man down the corridor says, as officers stand over Bradford and pin

someone else to the ground. "They just killed that black boy for no reason. . . . He probably got a gun license and

everything." 

Civil rights attorney Ben Crump, who has previously represented the families of black shooting victims such as

Stephon Clark and Trayvon Martin, is representing the Bradfords. 

Bradford is one of more than 850 people who have been shot and killed by police in the United States this year,

according to a Washington Post database, and the latest of many black men whose deaths have led to

accusations of systemic racism in the U.S. law enforcement system. 

"The systems in America are dangerous for and to Black people," Bernice King, the daughter of the Rev. Martin

Luther King Jr., wrote as accounts of Bradford's killing spread on Twitter. 

On Saturday, a group of protesters marched around and through the mall, followed by Hoover police officers and

joined by several of Bradford's family members. 

As seen in ABC 33/40s live feed, relatives described Bradford as the youngest member of a military family —the

son of a Marine who, as his great aunt put it, "chose country first, not a bullet." 

"They shot the wrong man!" another woman said, consoling the aunt. 

Read more:'They basically saw a black man with a gun': Police kill armed guard while responding to call 

Dallas Police Dept. fires officer who killed Botham Jean in his apartment 

Man who had been accused of groping opens fire on Tallahassee yoga class, killing two, police say 

'They showed his photo, and my stomach just dropped': Neighbors recall synagogue massacre suspect as a loner 

Credit: By Avi Selk 
 
 


 
Headnote 

COMMENTARY 

Police in Alabama shot to death a black man with a gun, making it the second time this month that police have

shot and killed a black man with a gun. In each case, police later admitted that they killed the wrong black man.

Also, they killed men who were risking their lives to save others. 

Police in Alabama and Illinois, where the deadly shootings occurred, have apologized to the victims' families. And

in what appears to be a growing trend, they refused to identify the officers involved except to say they were white. 

The most-recent shooting occurred in Hoover, Alabama, a Birmingham suburb, November 22 when two men got

into a fight. One of the men pulled a gun and shot the other twice. 

Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr., a 21-year old U.S. Army veteran armed with a pistol, was attempting to keep

innocent bystanders away from the fight when a police officer seeing his gun, shot and killed him. 

A day later, police admitted they shot and killed the wrong person and that the actual gunman got away. 

On November 11 in Midlothan, Illinois, police shot to death Jemel Roberson, a security guard at a Robbins, Illinois,

tavern, who had subdued a gunman firing indiscriminately at bar patrons only to be killed by a policeman called to

Bradford's family hired Benjamin Crump, a Florida attorney, who appeared on MSNBC to take questions concerning

die deadly shooting. Crump linked die two shootings. 

When police see a black man with a gun, they shoot first and ask questions later, Crump said. 

The explanations by both police departments are eerily similar. They claim that when they saw die guns, they

feared for their lives, but it's Roberson and Bradford who are dead. 
 
 


 
Nov. 27--21-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr. Photo: Benjamin L. Crump. 

HOOVER, Ala.  The Hoover Police Department and City of Hoover released their first  joint update concerning the

investigations of an officer-involved shooting and earlier shooting on Thanksgiving night at the Riverchase Galleria

that left one dead and two injured. 

Officials say the the shooter in the first incident  the shooting that police initially responded to  is still at large and

law enforcement agencies are working diligently to find that person. They encourage anyone with information to

contact the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency immediately. 

The statement also clarified some language used in relation to the officer-involved shooting and subsequent death

of 21-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford, Jr. Early Monday morning, Hoover Police said he was brandishing a gun

when officers shot him. In this most recent statement, they clarified by saying the word brandish was used

because Mr. Bradford had a gun in his hand as police officers responded to the active shooter situation between

mall patrons. 

transparency. 

The city and police department expressed their sympathies to Bradfords family. They reiterated their promise of

ALEA is leading both investigations. Hoover authorities say multiple agencies are actively meeting, communicating

and complying with ALEAs State Bureau of Investigations. 

The release is the first of updates Hoover authorities say will be released every Monday morning in an effort to be

transparent during the investigations. The first report was released just after 11:30 a.m. 

According to the Riverchase Gallerias Code of Conduct, firearms are not allowed. 
 
 


4/16/2019

Emantic Bradford Was Shot By Police From Behind At Alabama Mall, Autopsy Shows | HuffPost




Log In

Join HuﬀPost Plus

CRIME  12/04/2018 01:21 pm ET

Emantic Bradford Was Shot By Police From
Behind At Alabama Mall, Autopsy Shows

The young Army veteran was leading shoppers to safety during the shooting on
Thanksgiving night.

By Sebastian Murdock

An Alabama man who was fatally shot by police at a mall on Thanksgiving night was shot from 

behind, according to an autopsy. 

Oﬃcers from Hoover, Alabama, responded to a shooting at Galleria Mall in Birmingham on Nov. 22 

that wounded a 12- and 18-year-old. During the incident, police fatally shot 21-year-old Emantic “E.J.” 

Bradford Jr, who they said was holding a pistol. Bradford was directing shoppers to safety during 

the shooting, The New York Times reported



Emantic Bradford Was Shot By Police From Behind A…



   

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/emantic-bradford-was-shot-by-police-from-behind-at-alabama-mall-autopsy-shows_n_5c06adf1e4b07aec575345cc?ncid=txtlnkusaol… 1/4

4/16/2019

Emantic Bradford Was Shot By Police From Behind At Alabama Mall, Autopsy Shows | HuffPost

On Monday, attorney Benjamin Crump said an independent autopsy showed Bradford was shot in 

the back, head and neck, NBC reported.

“We believe based on this forensic evidence that (the oﬃcer who shot Bradford) should be charged 

with a crime,” Crump said at a news conference. “There’s nothing that justiﬁes him shooting E.J. as 

he’s moving away from him. You’re not a threat when you’re running away.”

Bradford graduated from a Catholic high school in the area and joined the Army in 2017. He was 

“administratively separated” from the service in August, The Montgomery Advertiser reported. His 

father, Bradford Sr., said his son had a permit to carry a concealed weapon.

The autopsy report said Bradford had a laceration on his face which might indicate he fell forward 

after being shot from behind.

“EJ’s senseless death is the latest egregious example of a black man killed because he was 

perceived to be a threat due to the color of his skin,” Crump said in a statement.

The killing has sparked protests in the Birmingham area, where demonstrators have demanded 

accountability, including the release of body camera footage of the incident. 

Hoover police said that “body camera video and other available video has been turned over to the 

Alabama Law Enforcement Agency (ALEA) which is now investigating the shooting.”

The results of that investigation will then be turned over to the district attorney’s oﬃce. 

The suspect in the shooting, 20-year-old Erron Brown, was taken into custody in Georgia on 

Thursday, according to NBC News. 

BEFORE YOU GO



Emantic Bradford Was Shot By Police From Behind A…



   

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/emantic-bradford-was-shot-by-police-from-behind-at-alabama-mall-autopsy-shows_n_5c06adf1e4b07aec575345cc?ncid=txtlnkusaol… 2/4

 

 
HOOVER, Ala. (AP) - The Latest on the fatal shooting at an Alabama mall (all times local):  

9:50 p.m.  

carry a weapon for self-defense.  

The father of a black man killed by a police officer during an Alabama mall shooting says his son had a permit to

Twenty-one-year-old Emantic "EJ" Bradford Jr. was fatally shot by a police officer responding to the Thanksgiving

night shooting that wounded an 18-year-old and 12-year-old. Hoover police initially thought Bradford, who was

carrying a handgun, was responsible. Authorities later said it was unlikely that Bradford had done the shooting.  

Bradford's father, Emantic Bradford Sr., spoke to The Associated Press on Saturday night from his family's home.

He said it was hurtful that police portrayed his son as the shooter.  

The family wants to know if there is police body camera footage from the shooting. Hoover police have not

confirmed to the Associated Press whether such footage exists.  

____  

2:25 p.m.  

bystander.  

____  

10 p.m.  

About 200 people marched through an Alabama shopping mall to protest the shooting death of a man whom

police erroneously believed was the gunman who shot and wounded two people.  

The protesters gathered at the spot at the Riverchase Galleria mall in suburban Birmingham where 21-year-old

Emantic "EJ" Bradford Jr. was shot and killed by a police officer who was responding to reports of gunfire.  

Police initially thought Bradford was responsible for shooting two people at the mall but later retracted that

statement. They later said it was unlikely that Bradford had done the shooting.  

Police are now searching for a gunman who they believed shot and wounded an 18-year-old male and a 12-year-old

The protesters held a moment of silence for Bradford at the spot where he was killed. Bradford's stepmother

Cynthia described him as a respectful young man and said he was the son of a Birmingham police officer.  

Police say a man shot and killed by a police officer at an Alabama shopping mall was "likely" not the person who

shot a teenager that evening.  

Twenty-one-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford was shot and killed by a police officer responding to the

Thanksgiving night shooting that wounded an 18-year-old and 12-year-old.  

Captain Gregg Rector said in a Friday news release that new evidence suggests that while Bradford "may have

been involved in some aspect of the altercation, he likely did not fire the rounds that injured the 18-year-old victim."

Police said that an officer shot Bradford because he was seen "brandishing a handgun" while fleeing the scene.  

Rector said they now believe that more than two individuals were involved in the altercation that started the

shooting and a gunman is at large.  

____  

6:39 a.m.  

12-year-old girl.  

A man was shot and killed by a police after a fight at an Alabama mall resulted in gunfire that injured a teen and a

A police statement said the shooting occurred shortly before 10 p.m. Thursday at the Riverchase Galleria in

Hoover, outside Birmingham.  

The statement said two Hoover officers in the mall confronted a 21-year-old man from Hueytown with a gun and

one of the officers shot and killed him. His name has not been released.  

An 18-year-old was taken to a Birmingham hospital for treatment of serious injuries.  

Capt. Greg Rector said in a news conference a 12-year-old girl struck by gunfire was hospitalized. She was reported

Identifier / keyword:

US Mall Shooting Alabama Alabama United States North America Birmingham

General news Shootings Violent crime Crime

Publication title:

AP English Language News (includes AP 50 State Report); New York

in stable condition at Children's Hospital.  

A mall security officer said the mall reopened at 6 a.m. Friday.  

___  

This story corrects dead man's age to 21.  

Credit: By The Associated Press 
 
 


 
Emantic Bradford Jr. wasn't just wrongfully identified as a mall shooter when he was killed by police. He was shot

three times from behind, his family's attorney said Monday. 

A medical review commissioned by Mr. Bradford's family showed the 21-year-old, nicknamed "EJ," was shot in the

head, the neck and near his right hip, attorney Ben Crump said. 

"There's nothing that justifies [the officer] shooting EJ as he's moving away from him. You're not a threat when

you're running away," Mr. Crump said. 

That doesn't mean Mr. Bradford was trying to run away from police, Mr. Crump said. Rather, when gunfire first rang

out at the Alabama mall, "witnesses have verified that everybody was running from the gunshots," he said. 

Mr. Bradford was at the Riverchase Galleria mall in Hoover on Thanksgiving night. Someone opened fire, wounding

an 18-year-old man and a 12-year-old bystander. 

Moments later, a Hoover police officer working security at the mall shot and killed Mr. Bradford. 

At first, police identified Mr. Bradford as the assailant. They later changed their story, saying Mr. Bradford probably

wasn't the shooter but did have his hand on his gun. (Mr. Crump said Mr. Bradford had a legal permit to carry a gun

in public.) 

A week after the mall shooting, authorities identified Erron Martez Dequan Brown as the suspect. Mr. Brown is now

in custody, charged with attempted murder for wounding the 18-year-old. 

Many residents in the Birmingham area have called for police to release any body camera footage to the public. 

But neither Hoover police nor the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency - which is now leading the investigation - will

be releasing evidence in the near future. 

Hoover police Chief Nick Derzis issued a statement Monday saying the state's secretary of law enforcement asked

the city not to release any critical information prematurely. 

"Secretary [Hal] Taylor reiterated the importance of maintaining the integrity of their investigation. He has

specifically asked that we do not release any potential evidence as it may not only jeopardize the integrity of the

case, but also complicate or delay their efforts," Chief Derzis said. 

"While we maintain our commitment to be fully transparent during this process, we must respect the Alabama Law

Enforcement Agency's request for full cooperation and continue to have faith in the judicial process. We want the

whole truth, unimpeded and not delayed." 

Mr. Bradford's father, Emantic Bradford Sr., called the Hoover police officer who killed his son a "coward." 

"What you have done was destroy my family," the father said. "You shot a 21-year-old person running away from

gunfire." 

The officer, who has not been publicly identified, is on paid administrative leave pending the state's investigation. 

CAPTION: PHOTO: AP photo/Jay Reeves: Attorney Ben Crump discusses the results of a forensic examination on

Emantic "EJ" Bradford Jr. - who was fatally shot by police in a shopping mall on Thanksgiving - during a news

conference in Birmingham, Ala., on Dec. 3, 2018. 

CREDIT: By Holly Yan CNN 



 
Headnote 

intervene 

Shootings of Jemel Roberson and Emantic Bradford Jr. amplify fears of being seen with a gun, even when trying to

ODENTON, Md. - Gun-rights advocates like to say, "The only way to stop a bad guy with a gun is with a good guy

with a gun." Some black gun owners, though, are not so sure it's a wise idea for them to try to be the good guy and

pull out a weapon in public. 

Twice in the span of 11 days last month, a black man who drew a gun in response to a crime in the U.S. was shot

to death by a white police officer after apparently being mistaken for the bad guy. 

Some African-Americans who are licensed to carry weapons say cases like those make them hesitant to step in to

protect others. 

"I'm not an advocate of open-carry if you're Black," said the Rev. Kenn Blanchard, a Second Amendment activist

and host of the YouTube program "Black Man With a Gun TV," a gun advocacy show. "We still have racism. ... We

still scare people. The psychology of fear, it's bigger than the Second Amendment." 

The recent shootings of Jemel Roberson and Emantic Bradford Jr. amplified long-held fears that bad things can

happen when a Black man is seen with a gun. 

Roberson was working security at a Robbins, Illinois, bar when he was killed Nov. 11 while holding at gunpoint a

man involved in a shooting. Witnesses said the officer ordered the 26-year-old Roberson to drop his gun before

opening fire. 

suspect. 

But witnesses also reportedly shouted that Roberson, who had a firearms permit, was a guard. And a fellow guard

said Roberson was wearing a knit hat and sweatshirt that were emblazoned "Security." 

Bradford, 21, was killed Thanksgiving night by an officer responding to a report of gunfire at a shopping mall in

Hoover, Alabama. Police initially identified Bradford as the gunman but later backtracked and arrested another

Ben Crump, a lawyer for the dead man's family, said witnesses claimed Bradford was trying to wave people away

from the shooting. Crump said Bradford was licensed to carry a weapon but was presumably seen as a threat

because he was a Black man. 

The two shootings have brought 

up some of the same questions about racist assumptions and subconscious fears that were asked after the

killings of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, and Trayvon Martin in San-ford, Florida. 

Trevor Noah, host of "The Daily Show," lamented Bradford's death. 

"That's what they always say, right? 'The good guy with a gun stops the crime,'" Noah said. "But then if the good

guy with a gun turns out to be a black good guy with a gun, they don't get any of the benefits." 

In some other cases involving black men killed by police: Philando Castile was shot in a car in 2016 in Minnesota,

seconds after informing the officer he had a gun. The officer was acquitted of manslaughter. And John Crawford III

was shot in a Walmart in Ohio in 2014 while holding a BB gun he had picked up in the sporting goods section.

Security footage showed he never pointed it at anyone. 

According to the advocacy group Mapping Police Violence, 1,147 people were killed by police in 2017, 92 percent

of them in shootings. While blacks made up 13 percent of the U.S. population, they accounted for 27 percent of

those killed by police, 35 percent of those killed by police while unarmed, and 34 percent of those killed while

unarmed and not attacking, the organization said. 

Andre Blount of Tom-ball, Texas, once pulled out his shotgun to help a neighbor who was being attacked by an

armed white man. The police eventually arrived and defused the situation, he said. 

"For me, being a legally registered owner and having a concealed weapon permit, I feel like I have to be more

careful than the next person," Blount said. "Because if not, the only thing anyone sees is a black man with a gun." 

Blount said he tells younger Black gun owners to really consider whether it's worth risking their lives in coming to

someone's aid with a weapon. 

"You want your kids to help someone, but you don't want them to be shot trying to help someone," he said. "It's a

Shootings; Firearms

Texas United States--US Ohio Illinois Minnesota Missouri Florida Alabama

Martin, Trayvon Castile, Philando Brown, Michael Noah, Trevor Roberson, Jemel

Company / organization:

Name: YouTube Inc; NAICS: 519130; Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS: 452112, 452910,

Publication title:

The Skanner, Seattle and Portland combined edition; Seattle, Wash.

sad thing." 
 
 


 
An Alabama police officer fatally shot a 21-year-old black man on Thursday night who the police initially said shot

at least one person at a mall near Birmingham, turning a Thanksgiving holiday shopping scene into chaos. 

But on Friday the police said evidence suggests that the man actually was not the gunman and that the true

gunman remained at large. 

preceded the shooting. 

The Hoover Police Department said on Twitter that the man who was killed, Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr., “may

have been involved in some aspect” of an altercation at the mall, the Riverchase Galleria in Hoover, Ala., that

But, they said, he “likely did not fire the rounds” that struck an 18-year-old man as they had originally indicated.

Another victim, a 12-year-old girl, was an “innocent bystander,” the police said. Both were hospitalized but their

conditions on Saturday were unavailable. 

“We regret that our initial media release was not totally accurate, but new evidence indicates that it was not,” the

police said, adding that the conclusion was based on interviews with witnesses and “critical evidentiary items.” 

[A lawyer for Mr. Bradford’s family described him as a “good guy with a gun.” ] 

In their initial statement on Friday , the police said uniformed officers who were providing security at the mall

“encountered a suspect brandishing a pistol and shot him.” It was not clear whether the officers believed Mr.

Bradford fired or intended to fire before he was killed. 

Mr. Bradford’s mother, April Pipkins, said in an interview on Saturday that Mr. Bradford was living with her near

Birmingham where he had been raised. Mr. Bradford, who was better known as E.J., would not have been involved

in the shooting, and might have been trying to protect other people in the mall, she said. 

“That was not his character at all,” she said. “He loved life, and he loved people.” 

He was licensed to carry a firearm, she said. Alabama generally does not prohibit people from carrying firearms in

public, according to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence . 

At an emotional news conference held by Mr. Bradford’s relatives on Sunday —one collapsed in tears partway

through —his family members said they were not notified of his death by the Hoover Police Department, but

instead learned of it through social media. 

Mr. Bradford’s father, Emantic Bradford Sr., said that he called the police Thursday night upon hearing of his son’s

shooting, and that he was told he would get a call back in 10 minutes. But he never did, he said, and it was several

hours before he called again and was able to talk to someone from the Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office at the

scene. 

“It hurts me to the core, my son is gone,” the elder Mr. Bradford said at the news conference. 

Anthony Thomas, Mr. Bradford’s uncle, said he wanted the police to release all the videos from the mall that day. 

“He was an honorable young man who was assassinated,” Mr. Thomas said. 

Ms. Pipkins is being represented by Benjamin L. Crump, a Tallahassee, Fla., lawyer, who has in the past

represented the families of Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown and Tamir Rice. 

Mr. Crump said the Hoover police had tarnished Mr. Bradford’s character by “jumping to conclusions” that he was

a criminal because he was a black man with a gun. 

“He was trying to be somebody who helped save people, yet he was killed,” Mr. Crump said. 

Mr. Bradford received a general discharge from the United States Army in August. An Army spokesman said Mr.

Bradford had not completed his training but would not elaborate. 

Capt. Gregg Rector, a spokesman for the Hoover Police Department, said on Saturday that it would be

inappropriate to answer questions about the circumstances around Mr. Bradford’s death because the Alabama

Law Enforcement Agency was leading the investigation. 

The Hoover Police Department is, however, conducting an internal investigation into Mr. Bradford’s killing by the

officer. That officer, who has not been identified, has been put on administrative leave until the investigation is

complete. Captain Rector did not answer other questions about the officer on Saturday. 

The Alabama Law Enforcement Agency declined to comment on Saturday and said that it would issue a statement

on Sunday. 

On Saturday, a group of protesters gathered at the mall , saying the police shot the wrong person. One carried a

sign that said “Emantic’s Life Matters.” Others carried a large blue banner reading “No police gun violence.” 

The episode on Thursday sent crowds of people running through the Riverchase Galleria, about 10 miles south of

Birmingham, according to videos posted on Twitter . 

One shopper told the television station WBRC that she was buying jewelry at a kiosk when she heard three bangs

and people started screaming and running for the exits as officers ran toward the gunfire. 

The police said they now believe that more than two people were involved in the altercation that preceded the

shooting and that at least one gunman remains at large. The police did not release a description of the person they

The mall, whose website boasts that it is “the largest enclosed shopping center in Alabama,” had advertised

special hours for the night of Thanksgiving: 6 p.m. to midnight. The Brookfield Properties Retail Group, which owns

the mall, did not respond to requests for comment on Saturday. 

Social networks; Law enforcement; Criminal investigations; State laws; Firearms

Alabama United States--US

Martin, Trayvon Rice, Tamir Brown, Michael

Company / organization:

Name: Retail Group; NAICS: 541613; Name: Department of the Army; NAICS: 928110;

Name: Twitter Inc; NAICS: 519130

Identifier / keyword:

Bradford, Emantic Fitzgerald Jr Shopping Centers and Malls Police Brutality,

Misconduct and Shootings Murders, Attempted Murders and Homicides Hoover (Ala)

Blacks Birmingham (Ala)

Publication title:

New York Times (Online); New York

Publication year:

2018

were seeking. 

Credit: Mihir Zaveri 
 
 


 
The police officer who killed Emantic Bradford Jr. at a Birmingham-area mall on Thanksgiving night "did not

commit a crime ... and thus will not be criminally charged for his actions," Alabama Attorney General Steve

Marshall said Tuesday. 

Alabama, officer. 

Marshall said it was also his understanding that the FBI will not be initiating a civil rights case against the Hoover,

Benjamin Crump, the attorney for Bradford's family, in a statement called Marshall's determination "outrageous

and beyond comprehension" and said the attorney general had concluded "that it was reasonable for a trained law

enforcement officer to fatally shoot an innocent civilian, one whose only action was an attempt to help protect the

public and whose only 'crime' was being black." 

Bradford's parents also spoke to reporters about the decision. 

"You think I'm going to let it go?" Bradford's father asked reporters. "As a black man, it's wrong." 

"I want to know, if that was your child would you consider this justice?" his mother asked. "You shoot my child

three times and y'all call that justice?" 

The officer who killed Bradford is in the process of returning to work, Hoover Mayor Frank Brocato said

Wednesday, adding that the city will pay for his defense in any civil proceedings. 

"We will defend our city, and we will defend our police officer," he told reporters. 

The Hoover officer is not being identified, he said, because he is being treated as a private citizen. If a private

citizen were investigated and found not to have committed a crime, his or her name would not be released, Brocato

"We're glad it's over, but it's not over for (the Bradford family). They lost a son, and we will never forget that," he

'You can't tell the story through the video' 

The officer was working mall security Thanksgiving night when he killed Bradford after a shooting that left two

said. 

said. 

people injured. 

Hoover police initially identified Bradford, 21, as the suspect, then recanted and said he brandished a weapon --

only to recant that statement as well, saying Bradford was mistaken for an active shooter because he was holding

a gun at the scene, which "immediately heightened the sense of threat to approaching police officers." 

Witnesses have said Bradford, armed with a permitted weapon, was helping mall patrons when the officer shot him

in the back, Crump has said. 

family. 

Marshall also released surveillance video Tuesday of the November 22 incident after showing it to Bradford's

In the edited video, a crowd can be seen dispersing from apparent gunfire, with Bradford taking a few steps toward

the shooting scene before he is shot by one of two officers approaching him from behind. What appears to be a

gun slides on the ground in front of Bradford as he falls to his side, the video shows. 

"You can't tell the story through the video," Brocato said. "You have to look at all the facts." 

Witnesses told police they heard officer order Bradford to drop weapon, attorney general says 

Marshall, in his report, said the officer identified Bradford "as an immediate deadly threat to innocent civilians and

thus shot Bradford to eliminate the threat." 

He called the officer's actions "reasonable under the circumstances and were consistent with his training and

nationally accepted standards for 'active shooter' scenarios." 

The report quoted two unidentified witnesses as telling investigators the officer ordered Bradford to drop his

weapon. 

"Drop your weapon, drop your weapon sir, put your weapon on the ground," one store employee told investigators

she heard the officer say before he shot Bradford. 

Another employee told police she saw Bradford take an "aggressive stance" and heard an officer order him --

"literally three times" -- to drop his weapon before he was shot. 

In two statements from the officer -- the first taken minutes after the shooting, the second a week later -- the officer

makes no mention of ordering Bradford to drop his weapon. 

"I observed an armed suspect quickly moving towards the two males standing near the railing," the officer said in

his second statement. "The suspect was advancing on the two males and had a black handgun in his right hand. I

fired my duty weapon at the armed suspect to stop him." 

The officer's actions did "not constitute a crime under Alabama law" and "should not be presented to a grand jury

for potential criminal prosecution," the attorney general's report said. 

Family's attorney says case 'riddled with dubious actions by officials' 

Crump called for the immediate release of the full, unedited surveillance video, noting that the officer "admitted he

provided no verbal warning." 

Brocato and City Attorney Phillip Corley told reporters Wednesday they had handed over all video to the state

attorney general and the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency, neither of which is likely to release the footage

because of the parallel investigation into the shooting that preceded Bradford's killing. 

"Are we to accept that it is reasonable for our law enforcement officers to respond by acting on their inherent

biases?" Crump asked. "In this case, it looks very much like the officer's reasoning was 'black man plus gun equals

shoot.' " 

officials." 

He added, "The decision to evade a grand jury mimics the (darkest) patterns of injustice woven throughout

Alabama's sad history of race relations. From the beginning, this case has been riddled with dubious actions by

Crump accused the attorney general of "doing everything he can to exonerate the officer's inexcusable actions,

trying to justify the officer's failure to follow proper procedures -- and, more importantly, to ignore the civil rights of

an innocent, law-abiding man who happened to be black." 

Dillon Nettles, policy analyst with the American Civil Liberties Union of Alabama, said the group is reviewing the

report to determine how to proceed. 

"The attorney general's characterization of E.J. Bradford as a 'threat' that needed 'eliminating' reveals how little

regard the attorney general has for the life of this black man," Nettles said in a statement. "Police officers need to

be held accountable when they shoot and kill innocent people." 

Confusion from the outset 

Hoover police initially said Bradford shot Brian Wilson, 18, in the suburban mall and that an officer killed Bradford

as he fled. Molly Davis, 12, also was shot, police said, adding it wasn't clear by whom. 

Police later changed the story, saying witnesses and forensic tests indicated that while Bradford may have been

involved in an altercation, he likely did not fire the rounds that injured the victims. 

His family has said Bradford was not at the mall with any of the victims or the suspect. He went there with his

cousin and two friends and, possessing a permit to carry a weapon, pulled out his gun after the shooting began. He

was helping people escape danger when he was killed, the family says. 

Erron Brown, 20, was arrested days later in Georgia and charged with attempted murder in Wilson's shooting,

police said. Brown's attorney has said video will clear his client. No charges have been filed in the shooting of the

12-year-old. 

The officer who shot Bradford was on paid administrative leave pending the state investigation. Hoover police are

also conducting an internal investigation that will likely take 30 days, the mayor said Wednesday. 

The family has said its independent medical review showed Bradford had been shot three times in the back. The

bullets struck him beneath his ear, at the base of his neck and just above his buttocks, Crump said. 

CORRECTION: The headline on this story has been updated to correct when the shooting occurred. 
 
 


 
The American Civil Liberties Union of Alabama issued the following news release: 

Hoover Police shot Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr., an African American male, stating he was an active shooter in

the Galleria Mall. Just hours later they admitted to mistakenly identifying him. (via AL.com) 

We offer our condolences to Bradford's family and friends. Black and brown people shouldn't have to live in

constant fear of law enforcement officials who are charged with protecting the public. Implicit bias is entrenched

in police practices that are inherently racist and that culture must change. 

The ACLU of Alabama expects the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency and the Hoover Police Department to

conduct transparent, unbiased investigations into this tragic death. Accountability of law enforcement agents to

the public is critical given their absolute authority to use lethal force in some circumstances. It is crucial that those

entrusted with that level of authority be committed to using it sparingly, equitably, legally, and in a racially

unbiased way. 

MSTRUCK-6535901 MSTRUCK 
 
 


 
The parents of an Alabama man shot dead by police after gunfire erupted at a mall on Thanksgiving night are

demanding "equal justice" for their son, insisting he was a good Samaritan who wanted to diffuse the situation,

according to ABC News. 

Cops originally identified “E.J.” Bradford Jr., 21, as the gunman who shot an 18-year-old and 12-year-old after an

altercation at the Riverchase shopping center in Hoover. But on Saturday they admitted Bradford was not the man

who fired the fatal shots—although they said he may have been involved in the dispute and was brandishing a

weapon when he was killed. 

“I'm outraged as a mother because I carried him for nine months,” Bradford's mother, April Pipkins, told ABC News.

“As a mother, no one understands how I feel. It's like someone ripped my heart out.” 

Bradford's father, Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Sr., said that the police who killed his son “need to be locked up.”

Bradford’s family claims police never contacted them, and that they learned of his death from news reports. “That

is no way to learn of your child's death,” Pipkins also said. “How would you want to be treated? Nobody should

have to go through this, to see their son on TV, on social media.” 

Lawyer Benjamin Crump, who previously represented the families of shooting victims Trayvon Martin and Michael

Brown, said in a press release that Bradford was a veteran who was licensed to carry a concealed firearm. “Equal

justice, we plan to get it under the law, because of what they've had to endure,” Crump said in reference to

Bradford’s parents. 
 
 


 
On Thanksgiving night, the sounds of gunshots inside an Alabama mall sent shoppers diving for cover and

sprinting for exits. Outside the mall, Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr. pulled out a gun and rushed to protect

shoppers, his family said. 

But Mr. Bradford was soon dead. An off-duty police officer working security at the mall, Riverchase Galleria in

Hoover, Ala., fatally shot him, the authorities said. In the days that followed, the official account by the Hoover

Police Department of what happened inside and outside the mall has shifted drastically. 

At first, the officer was praised for stopping a gunman after two people were shot outside a Footaction store on

the second floor. Then the police said that Mr. Bradford was not in fact the gunman and that the true gunman

remained on the loose. 

Early Monday morning, the Police Department made another statement. “With certainty Mr. Bradford brandished a

gun during the seconds following the gunshots,” the statement said, adding that his actions had “instantly

heightened the sense of threat to approaching police officers responding to the chaotic scene.” 

Later on Monday, the department sought to explain its use of the word brandished, saying, “Mr. Bradford had a gun

in his hand as police officers responded.” But the police have not elaborated or explained why he was viewed as a

threat. 

The radically changing stories by the authorities have left Mr. Bradford’s parents, April Pipkins and Emantic

Bradford Sr., distraught and demanding answers. Mr. Bradford, 21, was licensed to carry a firearm, his family said. 

Mr. Bradford’s death at the hands of law enforcement has also raised questions about the realities of the “good

guy with a gun” theory advocated by the National Rifle Association and President Trump as a solution to mass

shootings. In a two-week period this month, Mr. Bradford and another man, both of whom were black, have been

killed by the police while their families said they were trying to stop gunmen. 

On Nov. 11, the other man, Jemel Roberson, was killed while on duty as a security guard at a Chicago-area bar . He

was chasing after a gunman when a police officer fatally shot him. The N.R.A. did not respond to requests for

comment this month after Mr. Roberson was killed or on Monday about Mr. Bradford’s death. 

Benjamin L. Crump, a lawyer for Mr. Bradford’s family, said that Mr. Bradford had one problem when the officer

saw him holding a gun: He was black. 

Monday. 

“It’s almost as if the Second Amendment doesn’t apply to black people,” Mr. Crump said in an interview on

Mr. Crump, who also appeared on CNN on Monday morning alongside Mr. Bradford’s parents, accused the officer

of opening fire within “milliseconds” of encountering Mr. Bradford and without issuing verbal commands. 

“If you happen to be black, police see you as a criminal and they shoot and kill you,” he said. “That has been shown

in Chicago, and now here in Birmingham, Alabama, which is the epicenter of the civil rights movement.” 

people at the mall. 

Pipkins said. 

on Monday. 

He added, “It does not matter if you are a good guy with a gun.” 

Ms. Pipkins said that Mr. Bradford was instinctively a helpful person and was most likely only trying to defend

“I will never be able to see my son’s face again, or to look into his eyes, or hear him say, ‘Mom, I love you,’” Ms.

An 18-year-old man was struck by gunfire at the mall, as was a 12-year-old girl who was described by the police as

an “innocent bystander.” It was unclear if the two were shot by the same person. Their conditions were not known

The police said they had “certain information about” the suspected gunman, who remained at large, but they

encouraged the public to call the authorities if they had additional details. 

The State Bureau of Investigation, part of the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency, is investigating the episode on

the request of the Jefferson County district attorney, Mike Anderton. The Hoover Police Department has opened an

internal investigation into the actions of the officer who killed Mr. Bradford. 

The Police Department said on Monday that footage from the responding officers’ body cameras and other videos

had been turned over to investigators. The contents of the videos have not been made public. Mr. Bradford’s family

has demanded that they be released. 

Hoover’s mayor, Frank Brocato, said in a statement on Monday night that officials were in the process of

requesting a meeting with the Bradford family. He said officials were seeking “answers” and pleaded for the public

“There’s honestly not a lot we can say at this point since the investigation is not in the city’s hands,” Mr. Brocato

Mr. Bradford received a general discharge from the Army in August, but a spokesman said that he had not

His parents said they had not believed the Hoover Police Department’s initial contention that their son had been

involved in the shooting. They have been troubled by the lack of communication from the authorities, they said. 

His father said on CNN that the police had not contacted him and that he learned about his son’s death on social

media. His mother said she wanted an open-casket funeral but had been unable to view his body to see its

The elder Mr. Bradford, who retired as a supervisor at the Birmingham City Jail, said he was disturbed by his son’s

treatment at the hands of fellow law enforcement officers. 

“You show me a lack of respect, his mother a lack of respect, and my son a lack of respect because you allowed

him to lay there in the mall bleeding out, and you never covered him up,” Mr. Bradford said. “You just let him lay

to be patient. 

said. 

completed his training. 

condition. 

there.” 

Credit: Matthew Haag 
 
 


 
Emantic Bradford Sr. has received an apology from Hoover, Alabama, officials, he said Thursday, but he remains

disappointed they did not extend him the courtesy of promptly letting him know police killed his son Thanksgiving

night. 

"They apologized, but that still doesn't erase the fact that we were not notified that night, so what was your reason

and rationale?" asked Bradford, who spent 25 years as a correctional officer. 

Bradford has repeatedly expressed his displeasure with Hoover officials for not reaching out to him or answering

basic questions in the hours after a police officer killed Emantic Bradford Jr., aka EJ, at the Riverchase Galleria

mall. He did not learn his son was dead until hours afterward, and his mother learned of his death the next day,

from one of the 21-year-old's friends, he said. 

Family lawyer Ben Crump said officials tried to pass the buck when they met with the father. 

"They said the coroner should've done it. This is five days later, after they put out across worldwide media that

their son was a mass shooter," the civil rights attorney said. 

Confusion from the outset 

Hoover police initially said Bradford Jr. shot a 12- and an 18-year-old in the suburban Birmingham mall and that an

officer killed him as he fled. Police later changed the story, saying witnesses and forensic tests indicated that

while Bradford may have been involved in an altercation, he likely did not fire the rounds that injured the victims. 

The family has said that Bradford Jr. was not at the mall with any of the victims or the suspect. He went there with

his cousin and two friends, and possessing a permit to carry a weapon, pulled out his gun after the shooting

began. He was helping people escape danger when he was killed, the family says. 

Police later issued another statement saying Bradford Jr. had brandished a weapon, only to recant those remarks

as well, saying Bradford Jr. "had a gun in his hand" when police shot him. 

Erron Brown, 20, was arrested last week in Georgia and charged with attempted murder in the shooting of 18-year-

old Brian Xavier Wilson. Brown's attorney has said video will clear his client of any crimes. No charges have been

filed in the shooting of 12-year-old bystander Molly Davis. 

The officer, who was working as mall security Thanksgiving night, has not been publicly identified. The officer is on

paid administrative leave pending a state investigation. Bradford Jr.'s official autopsy report hasn't been released

to the public. 

Dad brands officer a 'coward' 

On Monday, Crump said that an independent medical review commissioned by the family showed Bradford Jr. had

been shot three times in the back. The bullets struck him beneath his ear, at the base of his neck and just above

his buttocks, Crump told CNN on Thursday. 

EJ's parents and family," he said. 

"For whatever reason, the police shot him as he was running away like everybody else, and it's just inexplicable to

"(President Donald Trump) says to stop these bad guys with guns and prevent these mass shootings, we need to

have good guys with guns. EJ was a good guy with a gun. He happened to be a black man, and -- for whatever

reason -- the police, when they see good guys with guns who happen to be black ... they label them criminals, just

like Jemel Roberson in Chicago and now with Emantic Bradford Jr. here in Alabama." 

A Midlothian, Illinois, police officer killed Roberson, a security guard, after the 26-year-old stopped a gunman who

had opened fire last month in a bar. 

"We have to stop this pattern and practice of just seeing black and shoot first, ask questions later," Crump said. 

Asked his reaction to learning his son was shot in the back, Bradford Sr. repeated his assertion that it was a

gutless move by the officer. 

"My son was murdered, and the officer that shot him was a coward, and it hurt me because my son was moving

away from gunfire. He was running like everybody else, and you shot my son three times in the back. That's murder

any way you look at it, and the facts speak for themselves," he said. 

Police plead, 'Avoid expressions of anger' 

CNN has repeatedly asked Hoover police to clarify its statements on Bradford Jr.'s involvement in the

Thanksgiving night altercation. It doesn't appear clarity is imminent, as Hoover police and the Alabama Law

Enforcement Agency, which is leading the investigation, have said they won't release any evidence in the near

future. 

"While we maintain our commitment to be fully transparent during this process, we must respect the Alabama Law

Enforcement Agency's request for full cooperation and continue to have faith in the judicial process. We want the

whole truth, unimpeded and not delayed," Hoover police Chief Nick Derzis said in a statement Monday. 

The Bradford family and residents in the Birmingham area have called for police to release all body camera and

surveillance footage. 

Protests have sporadically erupted since the shooting, most notably Tuesday night when demonstrators reportedly

faced off with police at a shopping center and shut down a portion of Interstate 459. 

Hoover police said Wednesday that while they respect freedom of expression and will allow peaceful protests, they

will not permit any protests on city school property. 

"Most cities experiencing protests have found that the best practice, in general, is to allow them to be conducted

as long as they are nonviolent," a statement said. "We also advise citizens to take every measure to avoid

expressions of anger and frustration during protests and to not make retaliatory or hostile comments on social

Subject:

Thanksgiving; Law enforcement; Criminal investigations; Mass murders; Murders

media or other communications." 
 
 


 
An Alabama city and its police department publicly expressed condolences Monday to the family of a black man

fatally shot by an officer in the chaotic moments after a prior shooting at a crowded mall on Thanksgiving night.  

But a statement issued by officials in Hoover, 10 miles south of Birmingham, placed some of the responsibility on

Emantic "EJ" Bradford Jr. , who was killed by an officer working private security at the sprawling, two-story

The statement said Bradford, 21, was shot during Hoover police's efforts to secure the scene after the initial

shooting, which wounded an 18-year-old man and a 12-year-old girl. A manhunt for at least one shooter continued

"We can say with certainty Mr. Bradford brandished a gun during the seconds following the gunshots, which

instantly heightened the sense of threat to approaching police officers responding to the chaotic scene," the

Riverchase Galleria.  

Monday.  

statement said.  

Police clarified that "brandished" meant Bradford was holding a gun.  

"We are deeply and sincerely sympathetic to Mr. Bradford's grieving family and all of those affected by this

incident," the statement said. "We all want answers, and we believe that with patience and focus the truth will be

firmly established. " 

More: 'Rush to judgment': Family demands justice after officer kills black man 

More: Alabama mall shooting: Officer killed the wrong man, officials say 

In the hours after the shooting, Hoover police lauded the "heroic" officer for taking down a suspect. Several hours

later, police walked the story back, saying Bradford was not the initial shooter.  

Bradford's father, Emantic Bradford Sr. , said Monday that police had not reached out to the family to apologize or

explain what happened. He said his son was disrespected by police who initially suggested he was the shooter

–and by officers at the scene who allowed bystanders to take photos and video after the shooting.  

Bradford's family hired civil rights lawyer Benjamin Crump.  

Crump said Bradford tried to bring calm to the altercation and had a permit for his gun. Crump said the officer "saw

a black man with a gun, and he made his determination that he (Bradford) must be a criminal. " 

Crump and the family have called on police to release body camera footage and other video of the shooting, saying

it would tell the "whole story. " 

Hoover police said they turned over video and other evidence to the Jefferson County Sheriff's Department, which

turned it over to the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency that leads the investigation. ALEA has not announced

when or if the videos would be released.  

The city and police department pledged transparency throughout the investigation and said it would provide

weekly updates. Authorities have "certain information" about the initial shooter and urged the public to provide

ALEA with any information that could hasten an arrest, the statement said.  

The statement sent condolences to the family of the two initial victims, both hospitalized in stable condition after

the gunfire.  

"These are just some of the many lives that were immediately impacted by an event so unnecessary on what

should have been a peaceful Thanksgiving evening," Monday's statement said.  
 
 


 
Hoover police can't seem to get their story straight on why an officer killed a man at an Alabama mall. 

First, they said a 21-year-old suspect shot and wounded two other people. Then they said Emantic Bradford didn't

pull the trigger, but brandished a gun. Now we've learned Bradford didn't necessarily do that, either. 

All the while, the real assailant who opened fire at the mall is still on the loose. 

Here's a quick breakdown of shifting police narrative: 

Thanksgiving nightPolice report a shooting 

Birmingham. 

Friday morning Police say the suspect was killed 

Hoover police reported a shooting Thursday night at Riverchase Galleria Mall, an upscale mall south of

Police said two men got into a fight at the mall, and one of the men shot the other twice in the upper body. 

Two uniformed Hoover officers working security at the mall were nearby, police said. 

"While moving toward the shooting scene, one of the officers encountered a suspect brandishing a pistol and shot

him," police said in a statement. 

They identified the slain suspect as a 21-year-old from nearby Hueytown. 

The other man who was shot at the mall and a 12-year-old girl struck by a stray bullet both survived. 

Friday night Police say Bradford probably wasn't the shooter 

Hoover police identified the man killed as Emantic Bradford Jr. They said Bradford fled the shooting scene "while

brandishing a handgun," and an officer shot him. 

But Bradford probably wasn't the gunman who shot and wounded an 18-year-old man at the mall, police said. They

said the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency is now taking the lead on the investigation. 

"New evidence now suggests that while Mr. Bradford may have been involved in some aspect of the altercation, he

likely did not fire the rounds that injured the 18-year-old victim," Hoover police posted on Facebook. 

"Investigators now believe that more than two individuals were involved in the initial altercation. This information

indicates that there is at least one gunman still at-large, who could be responsible for the shooting of the 18-year-

old male and 12-year-old female," police said. 

"We regret that our initial media release was not totally accurate, but new evidence indicates that it was not." 

Monday morningPolice: 'We can say with certainty Mr. Bradford brandished a gun' 

Four days after the shooting, Hoover police and the city of Hoover offered their condolences to Bradford's family --

but insisted that Bradford brandished a gun. 

"We extend sympathy to the family of Emantic J. Bradford of Hueytown, who was shot and killed during Hoover

Police efforts to secure the scene in the seconds following the original altercation and shooting," a joint statement

from the city and police department said. 

"We can say with certainty Mr. Bradford brandished a gun during the seconds following the gunshots, which

instantly heightened the sense of threat to approaching police officers responding to the chaotic scene." 

Bradford's parents said their son had a permit to carry a weapon. 

Hoover police said the officers' body camera footage is now in the hands of the Alabama Law Enforcement

Agency. It's not clear if or when the ALEA will release that footage to the public. 

Meanwhile, Bradford's parents told CNN they are distraught that police still hadn't reached out to them, almost four

days after their son was killed by an officer. 

"They haven't told me anything yet. Nobody has responded," said Bradford's father, Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Sr.

"We haven't gotten no calls and no apology." 

Later Monday morningBradford didn't necessarily brandish a gun 

Hoover police issued another clarification, saying Bradford simply had a gun in his hand: 

"Earlier, we stated that Mr. Bradford 'brandished' a gun. To clarify, the word 'brandish' was used because Mr.

Bradford had a gun in his hand as police officers responded to the active shooter situation between mall patrons." 

But to "brandish" -- according to most definitions -- means to wave or show a weapon in an aggressive or menacing

way. 

Bradford was actually trying to help people to safety when he was shot, said his family's attorney, Ben Crump. 

Crump also said Bradford had a permit to carry a concealed weapon. 

Monday eveningThe shooter is still out there 

Hoover Mayor Frank Brocato said the state is still investigating the shooting, including the search for the suspect

who remains at large. 

He also said the city is in the process of requesting a meeting with the Bradford family. 

The mayor and Hoover police have urged patience as state authorities try to determine what happened. The police

department has referred CNN's questions to the ALEA. 

But Crump said the Bradford family's patience is wearing thin. 

"Show us the video. Your words mean nothing to them," Crump said Monday. 

Crump said he believes the officer who killed "EJ" -- one of Bradford's nicknames -- rushed to judgment. 

"(The officer) saw a black man with a gun and he made his determination that he must be a criminal," Crump said. 
 
 


 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (AP) - The Latest on the police killing at an Alabama shopping mall (all times local):  

12:15 p.m.  

they're devastated by his autopsy.  

A lawyer for the family of a black man shot to death by an Alabama police officer on Thanksgiving night says

Their lawyer said Monday that a forensic pathologist hired by the family found Emantic "EJ" Bradford Jr. was

struck three times in the back side of his body, including one gunshot that entered the rear of his skull.  

Speaking at the family's small church in north Birmingham, attorney Ben Crump says nothing justifies the officer's

shooting of "EJ as he was running away from him."  

Emantic Bradford Sr. was visibly angry at the news conference, jabbing his finger as he addressed the unnamed

officer through TV cameras.  

He said "this is murder" and called the officer "a coward" for shooting his son in the back.  

The Rev. Jesse Jackson also was there. He says the authorities' refusal to release video evidence smacks of a

cover-up.  

___  

10:45 a.m.  

___  

10:30 a.m.  

Relatives of a black man shot to death on Thanksgiving by an Alabama police officer have a released a forensic

exam showing he was hit by three bullets to the back side of his body.  

The report released Monday by a lawyer for the dead man's family says Emantic "EJ" Bradford Jr. was struck by

one gunshot that entered the rear of his skull. The report says Bradford also was shot once in the back of the neck

and a third time in the lower back.  

Family attorney Ben Crump says any of the three shots could have killed the 21-year-old. The family hired a

forensic pathologist to review the evidence as the state's investigation continues.  

A Hoover officer shot Bradford in a suburban mall on Thanksgiving night.  

Police in an Alabama city say they won't release officer video or other evidence about an officer's killing of a black

man at a shopping mall until the state investigation is complete.  

Hoover police repeated Monday that state investigators are concerned the investigation could be jeopardized if

information is released.  

on Emantic "EJ" Fitzgerald Bradford Jr.  

A lawyer for the dead man's family, Ben Crump, is expected Monday to announce the results of a private autopsy

Bradford was killed by an officer responding to gunfire at the crowded mall Thanksgiving night.  

Police initially described Bradford as the mall gunman.  

They later said they were wrong, but said Bradford's appearance with a handgun moments after the shooting

increased the threat level for officers.  

___  

5 a.m.  

An attorney is expected to release the results of a private autopsy conducted on a black man killed by a police

officer responding to gunfire at an Alabama mall.  

Attorney Ben Crump scheduled a news conference Monday morning in Birmingham.  

A police officer fatally shot Emantic "EJ" Fitzgerald Bradford, Jr. after two people were wounded by gunfire in a

crowded mall Thanksgiving night.  

Police initially described Bradford as the mall gunman, but later said they were wrong. Then they said Bradford's

appearance with a handgun moments after the shooting increased the threat level for officers.  

Crump said last week that the family hired a pathologist whose independent autopsy would determine how many

times Bradford was shot and if he was shot in the front or the back.  

Credit: By JENNIFER McDERMOTT, Associated Press 
 
 


 
Protesters on Saturday marched through an Alabama shopping mall where police killed a black man they later

acknowledged was not the triggerman in a Thanksgiving night shooting that wounded two people.  

An officer shot and killed 21-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr. of Hueytown while responding to the

Thursday mall shooting. Police said Bradford was fleeing the scene with a weapon. 

Hoover Police initially told reporters Bradford had shot a teen at the mall, but later retracted the statement. 

"We knew that was false," said stepmother Cynthia Bradford when she heard police were blaming him for the

shooting. 

department officer. 

She described her stepson, who went by E.J., as a respectful young man who is the son of a Birmingham police

Hoover Police Capt. Gregg Rector said investigators now believe that more than two people were involved in the

initial fight ahead of the shooting, and that "at least one gunman" is still at large who could be responsible. 

Rector said police regret that their initial statement about Bradford was not accurate. 

More than 200 demonstrators, including several relatives, chanted "E.J." and "no justice, no peace" as they

marched past Christmas shoppers at the mall. They held a moment of silence at the spot outside a shoe store

where Bradford was killed. 

cried. 

"They should have never have killed him," Emani Smith, 7, Bradford's half-sister said, while other family members

Family members described their horror of finding out from social media that Bradford was dead. Video circulated

on social media of Bradford lying in a pool of blood on the mall floor. 

The incident began Thanksgiving night with a fight and shooting in suburban Birmingham at the Riverchase

Galleria, a mall crowded with Black Friday bargain hunters. 

An 18-year-old was shot twice and a 12-year-old bystander was shot in the back. 

Police said while Bradford "may have been involved in some aspect of the altercation, he likely did not fire the

rounds that injured the 18-year-old victim." The Alabama Law Enforcement Agency is investigating the incident

since it is an officer-involved shooting. 

The Hoover Police Department is conducting its own internal investigation. 

The officer who shot Bradford was placed on administrative leave while authorities investigate the shooting. The

officer's name was not released publicly. The officers were not hurt. 

Bradford is shown in photos on Facebook in an Army uniform, and he described himself as a combat engineer. A

spokesman for the Army, however, told The Washington Post that he "never completed advanced individual

Video posted on social media by shoppers showed a chaotic scene as shoppers fled the mall, which closed for the

A witness, Lexi Joiner, told Al.com she was shopping with her mother when the gunfire started. Joiner said she

heard six or seven shots and was ordered, along with some other shoppers, into a supply closet for cover. 

training," and so did not serve. 

remainder of Thursday night. 

"It was terrifying," Joiner said. 

A woman who described herself as the mother of the injured 12-year-old posted on social media that the girl was

on a Black Friday shopping trip with other family members when the shooting happened, and didn't realize that the

"She was hurting a lot, but very brave and positive as always," the mother wrote after seeing the girl when she

CAPTION: Photo: More than 200 demonstrators chanted as they marched Saturday at the Riverchase Galleria mall

pain in her back was from a bullet. 

arrived at a hospital. 

in Hoover, Ala. KIM CHANDLER/AP 
 
 


 
An attorney for Erron Martez DeQuan Brown, the man accused of carrying out a shooting at an Alabama mall that

led police to kill another man, said Wednesday that video of the incident would clear his client. 

"We believe that when the video is shown, not necessarily the body cam but the video from the mall, we believe it

will show very clearly that Erron Brown was not the instigator of this," attorney Charles Salvagio said. 

A judge in Jefferson County, Alabama, has granted a motion to release evidence to Salvagio, including video of the

Thanksgiving night shooting. 

Salvagio said that the shooting was not random and that the people involved knew each other. He declined to

provide further details but said Brown was not guilty. 

"This could have happened anywhere. Somebody wanted it to happen at the Galleria," he said. "This was not a

random thing." 

Brown, 20, was arrested last week in Fairburn, Georgia, and faces one count of attempted murder in a shooting at

the Riverchase Galleria Mall in Hoover, Alabama, a suburb of Birmingham. He agreed to waive his right to fight

extradition to Alabama in court on Friday. 

Authorities say they believe Brown shot 18-year-old Brian Xavier Wilson at the mall on Thanksgiving night before

fleeing. Wilson and a 12-year-old girl who was hit by a stray bullet are recovering from their injuries. 

Moments after the shooting, a Hoover police officer working security at the mall shot and killed a different man --

Emantic Bradford Jr., a 21-year-old from nearby Hueytown. 

Over the past week, Hoover police have repeatedly changed their story about why Bradford was shot. Officials

initially called Bradford a suspect who was shot after he "brandished" a gun. But police later said Bradford was not

the primary suspect in the shooting, and also hedged on whether or not he had actually brandished a gun. 

The case has been turned over to the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency (ALEA), which said last week that it will

"not release information concerning pending criminal investigations." 

Bradford's family and their attorney, Benjamin Crump, allege the police officer wrongfully shot him and did so

without warning. Bradford had a concealed-weapon permit, they said. 

Crump said he believes the officer who killed "EJ" -- one of Bradford's nicknames -- rushed to judgment because of

Bradford's race. 

"(The officer) saw a black man with a gun and he made his determination that he must be a criminal," Crump said. 

The Hoover officer who was working as security at the mall when he killed Bradford is on administrative leave,

pending the outcome of the investigation. He has not been charged with any wrongdoing. 

Brown's family, speaking Wednesday, said they believe that his name will be cleared when all the facts come out. 

"I believe that Erron Brown is not the monster that has been presented by the media," said Pastor Frederick Smith,

a spokesperson for the family. 
 
 


 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (AP) - The mother of a young black man killed by a police officer in an Alabama shopping mall

said Tuesday she believes her son would still be alive had he been white.  

"I think the whole scenario would have played out differently, I really do," April Pipkins said in an interview with The

Associated Press.  

people south of Birmingham.  

Pipkins' son, 21-year-old Emantic "EJ" Bradford Jr., was shot to death Thanksgiving night by a police officer

responding to a report of a shooting in a shopping mall at the Riverchase Galleria in Hoover, a suburb of 95,000

Police initially blamed Bradford, who they said had a gun in his hand and was responsible for shooting two people

at the mall. They later retracted that statement and said it was unlikely that Bradford had done the shooting.  

In a statement issued Monday, police said Bradford had a gun in his hand "during the seconds following the

gunshots, which instantly heightened the sense of threat to approaching police officers."  

Ben Crump, a lawyer representing the Bradford family, said there was a presumption that Bradford was the criminal

because he was a black man. He said witnesses have contacted his law firm saying Bradford was trying to wave

people away from the shooting.  

evening.  

Pipkins described her son as a loving, friendly young man. He went to the mall with friends on Thanksgiving

She said she didn't find out what happened to her son until Friday morning when she returned a call from one of

his friends who had tried to reach her during the night. She has tried to avoid images of the shooting, but

accidentally stumbled across a picture on social media of her son dead on the floor of the mall.  

"I did not want to see pictures of my son laying in a pool of blood and when I accidentally came across it I broke

down. And I can't get it out of my head. I cannot get the scene out of my head of my child laying there, nobody

around him trying to help him, just laying like a piece of trash where everyone can walk around and parade and

post pictures of him on social media," Pipkins said.  

Police still have not contacted her about the shooting, Pipkins said. She said her only official confirmation of his

death came when she called the coroner's office herself.  

She said the officer "should be punished for what he did."  

Pipkins said her son attended Catholic school in Birmingham, but ended up getting his GED. She said he joined the

Army and completed basic training, but had to leave because of a leg injury before completing specialty training.  

About 200 people attended a community vigil for Bradford on Tuesday night at Birmingham's 16th Street Baptist

Church, where a racist bombing killed four black girls in 1963. Pipkins entered to a standing ovation.  

Speaking from the pulpit, regional NAACP field director Kevin Myles said Bradford's killing was part of a pattern of

police killing black men without cause.  

"This is our personal Katrina. The helicopters are not coming, nobody is coming to bring us water. If we are to be

saved we will save ourselves," he said, referencing the catastrophic hurricane that hit the Gulf Coast more than a

decade ago.  

Pipkins collapsed in tears onstage as she began speaking at the church vigil. Ministers and a nurse surrounded her

as congregation members prayed. Paramedics took her to a nearby hospital to monitor her condition.  

Bradford's father, Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Sr., also was overcome with emotion moments earlier as he

described the pain of losing his son.  

"I can't hear him say 'daddy' no more," said Bradford, who is undergoing treatment for cancer.  

Questions over the shooting have sparked multiple demonstrations and a push by Bradford's family for authorities

to release body camera footage and other video. Police have refused to make any of the images public.  

The incident is being investigated by the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency. Hoover Mayor Frank Brocato has

pleaded for public patience as the investigation continues.  

After the church vigil, protesters with a bullhorn marched through Brocato's neighborhood chanting: "If we don't

get no justice, you don't get no sleep." It wasn't clear whether Brocato was at home.  

Credit: By JAY REEVES, Associated Press 
 
 


 
Publication: Stillman Advance, Stillman College, Tuscaloosa AL. 

In a disturbing update to yesterday's news about a shooting at a mall in the USA state of Alabama, local police now

believe that they shot and killed the wrong person in the immediate aftermath of the incident, and that the actual

Hoover police initially told reporters Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr, 21, had shot an 18-year-old at the mall on

Police now say they believe at least one gunman is still at large, who may be the one actually responsible for the

gunman may still be at large.  

Friday - but a day later retracted the statement.  

original shooting.  

A moment of silence was observed at the spot outside a shoe shop where Mr Bradford was killed. Bradford's

stepmother Cynthia described him as a respectful young man and said he was the son of a Birmingham police

officer. Hoover police spokesman Capt. Gregg Rector initially reported Bradford was in an argument with the 18-

year-old who was shot in the torso twice.  

Police said while Bradford "may have been involved in some aspect of the altercation, he likely did not fire the

rounds that injured the 18-year-old victim".  

More than two people were involved in the dispute, police say.  

A man was shot and killed by a police after a fight at an Alabama mall resulted in gunfire that injured a teen and a

12-year-old girl.  

Demonstrators gathered in protest of police violence after authorities admit that the suspect they killed following a

shooting at an Alabama mall was " likely " not the actual shooter.  

Police do not know how the confrontation began, but said they did not believe the 18-year-old was armed.  

One shopper told the television station WBRC that she was buying jewelry at a kiosk when she heard three bangs

and people started screaming and running for the exits as officers ran toward the gunfire.  

Stray Bullet Kills Anti-Gun Violence Essay Winner, 13 Authorities say four shell casings found outside Sandra's

home were fired from the handgun, the Journal Sentinel reported. Bernice Parks , Sandra's mother, told The

Milwaukee Journal Sentinelthat her daughter was "everything this world is not".  

It is unclear where Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr. was during the shooting.  

Family members described their horror of finding out from social media that Bradford was dead. "They shouldn't

have done that", Bradford Sr said.  

The protest was organized by Carlos Chaverst Jr., president of the Birmingham activist group Justice League, who

are demanding that the body camera footage from the incident be released.  

"They shot the wrong man!" another woman said, consoling the aunt.  

The initial report, Fuentes said, reflects the "pressure on police and authorities when there's an officer-involved

shooting to get out as much information as quickly as they can, even if it involves some kind of speculation or

they're jumping to a conclusion".  

by... His name has not been released.  

Riverchase Galleria Officer-involved Shooting Update The Hoover Police Department was informed this afternoon

Bradford had photos of himself in Army uniform posted on Facebook, and he described himself as a combat

Crump said Hoover police had tarnished Bradford's character by "jumping to conclusions" that he was a criminal

Neither a police spokesman nor officials with the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency responded Saturday to

engineer.  

because he was a black man with a gun.  

questions about the search and investigation.  

Company / organization:

Name: Facebook Inc; NAICS: 518210, 519130; Name: Stillman College; NAICS:

Credit: Steven Clarke 
 
 


 
HOOVER, Ala. —After gunshots rang out in a cavernous suburban shopping mall on Thanksgiving night, Ashlyn

McMillan encountered a man she considered a hero. He directed frantic shoppers to safety, hand on his gun to

defend against a looming threat. “Get down,” Ms. McMillan recalled him saying. “Go in the store.” 

Yet to a police officer who raced to the scene in Hoover, Ala., the black man with the gun was not a hero in action,

but “a suspect brandishing a pistol,” according to a police account. The officer fired at him, and the man, Emantic

Fitzgerald Bradford Jr., died. 

who was shot during the melee. 

As it turned out, Mr. Bradford was not the gunman the police had been searching for. On Thursday, police arrested

someone else —Erron Martez Dequan Brown, 20, and charged him with attempting to murder an 18-year-old man

The correction was too late for Mr. Bradford, whom the police initially identified as the culprit, only to change their

story a day later. Mr. Bradford had not shot anyone, the Hoover police said, but was a licensed gun owner at a

chaotic scene in the crowded mall. 

The two competing versions of what Mr. Bradford, who was 21, did that night —try to protect those in danger or

pose a serious threat by wielding a gun during a moment of chaos —are at the center of a controversy over race,

gun rights and bias that has erupted in this predominantly white suburb outside of Birmingham, and led to

protests. 

The incident has called into question the veracity of a popular slogan among Second Amendment enthusiasts:

“The best way to stop a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun.” Black people trying to protect themselves or

others with a gun may not have gotten the benefit of the doubt in recent heat-of-the-moment situations. 

This month, before Mr. Bradford’s killing, the police fatally shot a black security guard who had pulled his gun to try

to break up a shooting in a suburban Chicago bar. A Portland State University policeman fatally shot a black Navy

veteran who, witnesses said, had been trying to break up a fight outside of a bar when his firearm fell to the ground

during the scuffle. Both men were licensed to carry. 

And in St. Louis last year, a black off-duty police officer was shot and wounded by a white colleague after the black

officer had taken his service weapon out to help officers trying to catch suspects near his home. 

In Hoover, Mr. Bradford’s family members and activists have accused the officer of being too quick to assume that

because Mr. Bradford was a black man with a gun, he was a threat rather than a good Samaritan, and fired right

away. 

“As a black man, even a black woman, having a gun automatically puts you in danger,” said April Pipkins, Mr.

Bradford’s mother. “Why is there a perception that with every black man or every black woman, there’s a gun,

they’re going for it, like we just kill people to kill people.” 

Black residents said Hoover is a town with a reputation of being unwelcoming to black people, having grown out of

the white flight of decades past. 

Much remains unclear about what led to Mr. Bradford’s death on the opening evening of the holiday shopping

season at the Riverchase Galleria, the state’s largest indoor mall. Witnesses have said they did not see Mr.

Bradford pointing his gun at people or hear the police shouting commands before shooting him. 

Those details will be important as investigators determine whether the shooting was legally justified. In chaotic

situations, officers can have just a split second to make life-or-death decisions, and the presence of firearms only

complicates things, experts say. In fact, Hoover officials said in a news release that Mr. Bradford’s decision to pull

his gun “instantly heightened the sense of threat to approaching police officers.” 

Under intense public scrutiny, the city has since gone to great lengths publicly and privately to atone for the killing

of Mr. Bradford, who received a general discharge from the Army in August after sustaining an injury during basic

training, his mother said. 

Officials met with Mr. Bradford’s family to offer their condolences, and they postponed a Christmas tree lighting

ceremony, urging people to pray for the family instead. They also made the unusual step of asking the Alabama

Law Enforcement Agency, which has taken control of the investigation, to permit them to release all the

information, including video footage, that they had on the case so far. 

If the agency did not approve the request by noon on Monday, the police chief would consider releasing the

information anyway, said Derrick Murphy, the only black Hoover city councilman. 

“Praying is the least we can do for the Bradford family,” Mr. Murphy said during a news conference on Thursday

morning that ended with a prayer. “I know time is important.” 

Mr. Bradford went to the Galleria often and he was there last Thursday night to shop and, like many young people

in the area, hang out with friends. 

Ms. McMillan, an 18-year-old college student from Tuscaloosa, was there waiting for a friend in front of Foot Action

on the second level when she saw several young men arguing outside of the store and then heard a gunshot. 

John C. Robbins, a lawyer for Brian Wilson, the 18-year-old who was injured during the incident, said his client had

been arguing with Mr. Brown, who was arrested by federal marshals on Thursday at a relative’s house in South

Fulton, Ga. The lawyer said that Mr. Bradford was not involved. 

The first gunshot, Mr. Robbins said, hit Mr. Wilson in the stomach. A 12-year-old girl was also shot at the mall that

night, but it remains unclear who was responsible. 

Ms. McMillan, the witness, recalled seeing Mr. Bradford urging people to take cover. She saw his hand on his

holstered gun at one point, she said, but was unsure if he ever actually took it out. 

About a minute after the initial gunshots, Ms. McMillan said another barrage came without warning; she did not

hear any police commands. Mr. Bradford, she said, fell to the floor from the bullets. 

“Just like in a movie, it was like everything slowed down,” Ms. McMillan said. “You just saw his body just hit the

ground so hard, his head bounced. It was just horrific.” 

While he strongly supports black people protecting themselves with firearms when they are in danger, Philip Smith,

the president of the National African-American Gun Association, said it was also important for black gun owners to

take extra precautions, which might mean walking away from a situation without drawing a weapon. 

“When you walk up to a situation as an officer, I think a lot of times there’s an assumption that the black guy is the

issue or the problem,” Mr. Smith said. “When you have those stereotypes that are ingrained in your mind, it can be

a death warrant for a lot of our black men, unfortunately.” 

The city has not released any information about the officer who shot Mr. Bradford and it did not respond to

repeated inquiries. The state agency investigating the case declined to comment. 

Hoover has a population of 85,000. Though the city is diversifying, civil rights leaders have criticized structural

barriers —from zoning ordinances to the school district breaking away from the county —that they say have kept

the suburban enclave 72 percent white. 

It is one of the suburbs that black people in the metropolitan area tell other black people to avoid, or, if they must

go, to drive carefully and be on their best behavior to avoid the intense scrutiny of local law enforcement. 

The city’s reputation never stopped Mr. Bradford from going there, much to his mother’s concern. His killing, Ms.

Pipkins said, was a culmination of that concern. 

“If you look at that situation,” she said, “we know we’re not really welcome here.” 

Credit: John Eligon 
 
 


 
MONTGOMERY, Ala - An Alabama police officer will not face charges for killing a man he mistook for the gunman

in a mall shooting, the state's attorney general announced Tuesday, drawing outrage from the slain man's family

who said the officer jumped to conclusions when he saw a young black man with a gun.  

An officer shot 21-year-old Emantic Bradford, Jr. while responding to an earlier shooting on Thanksgiving night at a

State Attorney General Steve Marshall announced Tuesday that his investigation concluded "the officer did not

commit a crime" and that he would not present the case to a grand jury. Marshall said he considered the matter

A 26-page report released by Marshall's office said the officer mistakenly believed Bradford fired the earlier shots.

But the report also said the Hoover officer, whose name has not been released, was still justified in shooting him

because of the threat he posed.  

The report said the officer saw Bradford running toward the scene with a gun and believed he was trying to kill the

shooting victim or harm others. The shooting victim was actually Bradford's friend, with whom he had been at the

mall in Hoover.  

closed.  

mall that evening.  

area."  

The report also stated that Bradford, who had a gun drawn, "posed an immediate deadly threat to persons in the

Bradford's family reacted with anger Tuesday. 

"The attorney general, he's in bed with Hoover. Bottom line. He covered it up. He sanitized it just so the officer

could get off with murdering my son," Emantic Bradford Sr. told news reporters.  

Caravan of 1,700 migrants camped on border near Texas 

MEXICO CITY - A caravan of about 1,700 Central American migrants was camped Tuesday in the Mexican border

city of Piedras Negras, just west of Eagle Pass, Texas.  

While previous caravans had preferred the border city of Tijuana, the relatively open section of the border around

Eagle Pass is marked mainly by the Rio Grande and lacks the long sections of high barriers found at Tijuana.  

Still, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security vowed in a statement that the "lawless caravan" would not be

allowed in.  

Images from local media showed U.S. agents with riot gear and shields standing on a bridge separating Eagle

Pass, Texas, and Piedras Negras. 

An improvised shelter was set up for about 1,700 migrants at an unused factory, and local officials said the

migrants had been given sleeping mats, blankets and food.  

Sexual assault complaint names former president of Costa Rica 

SAN JOSE, Costa Rica - Former President Oscar Arias, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, was enveloped in scandal

Tuesday after a sexual assault complaint was brought against him by a nuclear disarmament activist. 

Arias denied the allegation. 

According to the publication Semanario Universidad, the woman said the incident took place Dec. 1, 2014, at the

ex-president's home in San Jose, where she had come for a meeting related to her cause. 

She told the publication that Arias grabbed her from behind, touched her breasts, began to kiss her and penetrated

According to Semanario Universidad, the woman said Arias proposed meeting elsewhere, and she used that as an

her with his fingers. 

excuse to leave.  

May vows no return to hard border for Ulster, Ireland 

LONDON - British Prime Minister Theresa May told business leaders in Northern Ireland on Tuesday that she is

seeking changes to the U.K.'s withdrawal agreement with the European Union, but not the total removal of the Irish

border provision that is the most contentious part of the deal.  

Seeking to ease fears about the return of customs posts and vehicle checks, May said during a visit to Belfast that

the British government is committed to preventing the construction of a physical border between EU member

Ireland and the U.K.'s Northern Ireland after Britain leaves the European Union.  

She also emphasized the government's support for the Good Friday agreement, the 1998 treaty that largely ended

decades of violence in Northern Ireland.  

Confederate emblem stays on Miss. flag as bills die 

last flag in the U.S. to display it.  

JACKSON, Miss. - Mississippi lawmakers are again killing bills to remove the Confederate battle emblem from the

But they also rejected measures that would force universities opposed to the emblem to fly the banner.  

The emblem - a red field topped by a blue tilted cross and dotted by 13 white stars - has appeared on Mississippi's

flag since 1894. Critics say it's racist; those who oppose removing it say it's a historic symbol.  

Mississippians voted to keep the flag in a 2001 statewide election.  

For the past several years, multiple bills have been filed to redesign the Mississippi flag. More than a dozen were

filed this year, and they all died when they were not considered before a Tuesday deadline. It was the final day for

House and Senate committees to accept or reject general bills. 

Hope seen for deal on funds for border security 

WASHINGTON - Capitol Hill talks to resolve an impasse over President Donald Trump's demands for billions of

dollars for his long-sought border wall are inching forward. Lawmakers are focused more on forging agreement

among themselves and less on satisfying Trump.  

One such sign came Tuesday when Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said he's not seeking Trump's

blessing in advance of striking a deal on border security funding. 

McConnell said that negotiators "ought to reach an agreement, and then we'll hope that the president finds it worth

signing."  

any agreement could be reached.  

During the recent 35-day partial federal shutdown, McConnell insisted that Trump's buy-in would be needed before

Sentence: A southwestern Michigan man who fatally shot six strangers and wounded two others in between

picking up passengers for Uber in Kalamazoo was sentenced Tuesday to life in prison with no chance of parole.  

Jason Dalton, 48, pleaded guilty to murder and attempted murder last month.  

In France: The yellow vest protest movement joined ranks Tuesday with a major union, a first for both, in a day of

nationwide protests over taxes and buying power that brought tens of thousands into the streets. 

Brief scuffles did erupt during the mostly calm Paris demonstration, and police fired tear gas. 

Credit: - Staff and news services 

Caption: PHOTO: Performers in Hong Kong take part in a night parade Tuesday to celebrate Lunar New Year and

the arrival of the Year of the Pig, according to the Chinese calendar, as people in Asia visited temples, burned

incense, set off fireworks and attended family banquets. 

Vincent Yu/AP 
 
 


 
HOOVER, Ala. (AP) - The Latest on the fatal shooting at an Alabama mall (all times local):  

2:25 p.m.  

About 200 people marched through an Alabama shopping mall to protest the shooting death of a man whom

police erroneously believed was the gunman who shot and wounded two people.  

The protesters gathered at the spot at the Riverchase Galleria mall in suburban Birmingham where 21-year-old

Emantic "EJ" Bradford Jr. was shot and killed by a police officer who was responding to reports of gunfire.  

Police initially thought Bradford was responsible for shooting two people at the mall but later retracted that

statement. They later said it was unlikely that Bradford had done the shooting.  

Police are now searching for a gunman who they believed shot and wounded an 18-year-old male and a 12-year-old

The protesters held a moment of silence for Bradford at the spot where he was killed. Bradford's stepmother

Cynthia described him as a respectful young man and said he was the son of a Birmingham police officer.  

bystander.  

___  

10 p.m.  

Police say a man shot and killed by a police officer at an Alabama shopping mall was "likely" not the person who

shot a teenager that evening.  

Twenty-one-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford was shot and killed by a police officer responding to the

Thanksgiving night shooting that wounded an 18-year-old and 12-year-old.  

Captain Gregg Rector said in a Friday news release that new evidence suggests that while Bradford "may have

been involved in some aspect of the altercation, he likely did not fire the rounds that injured the 18-year-old victim."

Police said that an officer shot Bradford because he was seen "brandishing a handgun" while fleeing the scene.  

Rector said they now believe that more than two individuals were involved in the altercation that started the

shooting and a gunman is at large.  

___  

6:39 a.m.  

12-year-old girl.  

Hoover, outside Birmingham.  

A man was shot and killed by a police after a fight at an Alabama mall resulted in gunfire that injured a teen and a

A police statement said the shooting occurred shortly before 10 p.m. Thursday at the Riverchase Galleria in

The statement said two Hoover officers in the mall confronted a 21-year-old man from Hueytown with a gun and

one of the officers shot and killed him. His name has not been released.  

An 18-year-old was taken to a Birmingham hospital for treatment of serious injuries.  

Capt. Greg Rector said in a news conference a 12-year-old girl struck by gunfire was hospitalized. She was reported

Identifier / keyword:

US Mall Shooting Alabama Alabama United States North America Birmingham

General news Protests and demonstrations Political and civil unrest Homicide

Violent crime Crime Shootings

Publication title:

AP English Language News (includes AP 50 State Report); New York

in stable condition at Children's Hospital.  

A mall security officer said the mall reopened at 6 a.m. Friday.  

___  

This story corrects dead man's age to 21.  

Credit: By EMILY WAGSTER PETTUS, Associated Press 
 
 


 
The man killed by police during a shootout at an Alabama mall on Thursday "likely" wasn't the gunman—so the real

shooter remains at large, police reportedly said. A police officer that responded to the shooting at the Riverchase

Galleria in Hoover—which left a 12 and 18-year-old injured—fatally shot Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford after arriving

on the scene. While authorities initially claimed that Bradford had shot at the victims, they said Friday new

evidence had emerged that clashed with their initial assessment. “We regret that our initial media release was not

totally accurate, but new evidence indicates that it was not,” Hoover Police Capt. Gregg Rector said in a statement.

Rector explained Bradford might have had some involvement in the dispute leading up to the shooting—and that

he was “brandishing a handgun”—but probably didn’t fire the shots that struck the 18-year-old. 
 
 


 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. (AP) - A group upset about the shooting death of a man by police at a shopping mall gathered

in the Alabama attorney general's neighborhood to protest his taking over the investigation.  

The group of about a dozen people went from Birmingham to Montgomery on Sunday to protest in the reported

neighborhood of Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall, news outlets reported.  

Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr., 21, was shot and killed by a Hoover police officer who responded to a shooting at

the Riverchase Galleria on Thanksgiving night. Bradford had a gun when he was shot by an officer.  

Investigators later determined that someone else was responsible for the original shooting that injured two people

and have charged Erron Brown, 20, with that shooting.  

Protesters on Sunday night walked through the neighborhood for about an hour, using bullhorns and a siren and

chanting "Recuse yourself" and "Hands up, don't shoot." They want the case returned to the local district attorney

or someone else.  

Montgomery police officers talked to the group and the protest ended a short time later. No arrests were made.  

A captain told protesters, "I know what you're here for and I don't have a problem with it," but said officers had

received complaints from residents. The group was told they needed to obtain a permit for the protest. Organizers

have said they would protest every night until Marshall responded to them.  

Marshall took over the investigation Dec. 13 because of a possible conflict of interest for local District Attorney

Danny Carr and those involved in the case.  

A spokesman for the attorney general had not comment on the protest.  

The Alabama State Bureau of Investigation is reviewing the shooting by the police officer.  

Credit: By Maggie Michael, Associated Press 
 
 


 
Emantic Bradford Jr, the 21-year-old African American man who was killed by a police officer on Thanksgiving at a

mall in Alabama, was shot three times from behind, according to an independent autopsy released by a civil rights

attorney ben Crump. 

homicide." 

According to the report, observed wounds included a gunshot to the right side of Bradford Jr's body, in his head,

neck and lower back. The report states: "The cause of death is gunshot wound of the head. Manner of death is

After Thanksgiving dinner with his family, Bradford Jr went to the mall. Gunfire broke out. A witness said he heard

multiple gunshots and later walked by Bradford's body. A 12-year-old girl and an 18-year-old man were injured. 

Initially, Hoover police identified Bradford as the suspect. They later said he was not the suspect, but had

"brandished" a gun. Police backed off that claim too. A week after the shooting, a suspect was arrested in Georgia. 

In the days after the shooting, vigils took place across suburban Birmingham. Protesters took to the streets,

blocking cars and holding up signs demanding "Justice for EJ". Relatives arrived from around the country and

families brought children to show them peaceful protests. Bradford's mother and father spoke at a community

meeting in a Baptist church that was central to the civil rights movement in the 1960s. 

A veteran of that movement, the Rev Jesse Jackson, delivered the eulogy at Bradford's funeral on Saturday and

attended a press conference on Monday. 

Until they commissioned the private autopsy, Bradford's parents said, they had no idea what happened to their

son. They and Crump, the attorney, said they had asked repeatedly for police and state agencies to release any

videos of the incident. 

The Hoover police department said in a statement: "We encourage Attorney Benjamin Crump and the Bradford

family to submit the Preliminary Anatomical Review to the Alabama law Enforcement Agency (Alea) so this new

information becomes a part of the official investigation." 

Crump said his team passed the results to the Jefferson county medical examiner before informing the public, and

the medical examiner should have shared the results with Alea. 

Almost immediately after Bradford died, Alea took over the investigation. The state agency has requested videos

and other information not be released "at the risk of compromising the justice process for everyone involved",

police said. The officer involved has not been named. Responding to the results of the private autopsy, police also

called for a thorough investigation. 

Crump said police offered the family their condolences last week. But the family has not heard from the police

again, he said. 
 
 


 
Police in Alabama searched Saturday for a gunman who shot and wounded a 12-year-old and an 18-year-old at a

mall on Thanksgiving night - a day after one of their own fatally shot the wrong suspect, an active-duty soldier

Cops in Hoover initially claimed Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr., 21, shot the two following an altercation at the

home for the holidays. 

Riverchase Galleria in Birmingham. 

said. 

not the one who fired the rounds. 

Bradford (inset) was seen running from the scene with a weapon and was fatally gunned down by an officer, police

Bradford's father told the AP Saturday that his son had a permit to carry a weapon for self defense. 

Some 20 hours after the shootings, police said that while Bradford may have been involved in some way, he was

His stepmother, Cynthia Kenniebrew Bradford, said he was identified by cops and in media reports as the shooter

before officials even spoke with the family. 

"My heart is so heavy now,'' she posted on Facebook. "RIP EJ." 

The officer who shot Bradford was placed on administrative leave, according to officials. 

Hoover police were conducting an internal investigation. 

With Wires 

CREDIT: Tamar Lapin, 
 
 


 
Many justifications are being offered for the tragic police shooting on Thanksgiving night that killed 21-year

Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr. at the Riverchase Galleria in Hoover, Ala., just south of Birmingham. They all seem

beside the point. 

Bradford, known as E.J., was among the shoppers who crowded the mall on Thursday when, police say, gunshots

wounded an 18-year-old man and a 12-year-old girl. Bradford apparently was armed. Police showed up on the

scene and shot him, and announced that in doing so, they had ended the threat. They later acknowledged that

Bradford had not been the shooter. But they claimed that he had "brandished" his gun at the scene, leading to a

"heightened sense of threat" in an already dangerous situation. 

Certainly, if a man holds a gun at the scene of a shooting, police are more likely zero in on him than on others.

Officers arrive in the midst of extremely tense, life-threatening and fast-moving situations and must think quickly. 

Yet guns are ubiquitous in this nation, whether we like it or not. Many people carry them legally, and for just this

kind of situation -- to be the "good guy with a gun" who stops the armed bad guy. No less than the president of the

United States has called for more armed citizens, so that in the midst of an altercation, many guns might be

wielded by good guys and bad guys alike. Officers should expect that. They should be trained for it. 

Police are human, but they are also specialists. It should not be asking too much to require them to understand

who they are about to shoot at before pulling their own triggers -- not just in spite of the chaos that's inherent at

the scene of a fight but precisely because of it. They represent the law and they represent order. That's what they

should be expected to bring to a scene of violence and confusion. 

It's not yet clear whether Bradford was an armed "good guy" who pulled his weapon to protect himself and others

when he heard shots fired. In any event, although we don't buy the "good guy with a gun" approach to safety, it's

tempting to wish that there were some kind of uniform that the good guys with guns could wear that would identify

them to officers as such, to keep them safe when they are trying to keep others safe. 

But that's just a fantasy and, besides, we have tragic evidence that no designation, no marking, would suffice.

Earlier this month, shots were fired during a fight at a Chicago bar and security guard Jemel Roberson

apprehended one participant. Witnesses said his clothing was clearly marked "security." Police arrived, saw

Roberson with a gun, and shot him dead. He was not merely a good guy with a gun, but a security professional.

That didn't save him. 

Bradford and Roberson were both armed African American men, and, according to one line of thinking, that is what

doomed them. Remember Philando Castile, the black motorist who was shot to death by a Minnesota police officer

in 2016 after calmly and prudently advising the officer that there was a firearm in the car. In that case there was no

altercation other than the one instigated by the police officer -- just a black man with a gun. 

There is plenty of evidence to support the contention that the use of force by police is meted out differently

according to race. A 2016 analysis by the National Bureau of Economic Research, for example, found that blacks

and Latinos are more than 50% more likely to experience force from law enforcement officers than their similarly

situated white counterparts. 

So it would stand to reason that police kill proportionately more blacks than whites -- yet that may not be the case.

The same study concludes says that when it comes to lethal force, blacks and whites are treated about the same. 

Squaring those two conclusions is a difficult exercise, and perhaps evidence of the complexity of race in America. 

But there is still much more studying to be done before scholars have a full grasp of the situation. What this study

and many others do show is that police shoot and kill many hundreds of people each year of all races -- numbers

far higher than in other developed nations. It's a signal that the legal standards for professional negligence in

policing, and the training that goes with them, should be toughened up. 

CREDIT: Editorial Desk 
 
 

Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without

permission.

 

 
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep —and lets us get

paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our

Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. 

‘The Second Amendment Is Not Intended for Black People’ 

Trevor Noah on Tuesday had harsh words for the American criminal justice system. He’d heard the news that the

Alabama authorities had shot and killed a black man, Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr., after wrongly assuming he

was the gunman in a Thanksgiving mall shooting. 

Noah said that the death of Bradford, an Army veteran, was only the latest reminder of how hard it is for black

people to rely on law enforcement —or the law at all, for that matter. “You start to realize that really, the Second

Amendment is not intended for black people,” he said. “It’s an uncomfortable thing to say, but it’s the truth.” 

Noah was particularly amazed that the victim had served in the Army, and that Bradford’s father is a police officer. 

At a campaign stop on behalf of Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith in Tupelo, Miss. —the birthplace of Elvis Presley

—President Trump said that in his youth, people used to tell him he looked like Presley, only with light hair. 

Jimmy Fallon thought that was funny, and took it as inspiration to create a White House-themed parody of

Noah responded sarcastically to news that General Motors will idle five plants across the United States and

Canada, something that President Trump had suggested he would not let happen. The company worded its

announcement carefully, saying it would not allocate products to those plants after March —but avoiding the world

[Video: Watch on YouTube. ] 

‘Jailhouse Rock’ 

[Video: Watch on YouTube. ] 

“Jailhouse Rock.” 

Noah Wants to Steal G.M.’s Euphemism 

[Video: Watch on YouTube. ] 

“close.” 

Colbert in the Hot Seat 

[Video: Watch on YouTube. ] 

After returning from Thanksgiving vacation, Stephen Colbert on Tuesday aired a show of all never-before-seen

content that had been taped far in advance. In these clips he flipped the script on himself, allowing Jon Stewart

and Neil deGrasse Tyson to sit behind his desk and put their questions to him. 

Stewart didn’t get an answer when he asked Colbert, point blank, which of his children he loved the most. But he

engaged Colbert on one of the host’s favorite topics: President Trump. 

“I don’t think Donald Trump likes the job of president, but he likes the trappings of power,” Stewart said. “I don’t

think he likes the, like, ‘Why are you talking to me about energy policy? Just get the shot of me going onto the

helicopter looking like a Mafia don.” 

“Right,” Colbert said. “Why are you asking me any questions? You know, why are you asking me two questions?

One question’s O.K., but two questions —then you might mention that I just lied to you.” 

The Punchiest Punchlines (All-Fallon Edition) 

What We’re Excited About on Wednesday Night 

about the federal government’s recent climate report . 

Also, Check This Out 

Former Vice President Al Gore will sit down with Noah on Wednesday. He’ll most likely have some things to say

A new Ariana Grande video; the death of Stephen Hillenburg, the creator of “SpongeBob SquarePants”; and Roald

Dahl on Netflix —it’s all in Tuesday’s pop-culture roundup . 

Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight: 

The 100 Best Movies on Netflix Right Now 

Stream These Dark Political Thrillers 

Non-Depressing Documentaries on Netflix 

Credit: Giovanni Russonello 
 
 


 
Local police in Alabama who responded to a shooting at a mall may have killed an armed black man who was not

responsible for the shooting. 

According to WBRC, two or more people were involved in an altercation at the Riverchase Galleria in Hoover,

Alabama, on Thanksgiving. Shots were fired, injuring a 12-year-old girl and an 18-year-old man. Police stated that

Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr. was fleeing the scene and wielding a handgun when he was shot and killed by

officers, but investigators said new evidence suggests that Bradford Jr. was not the person who fired the shots

that injured bystanders.  

Hoover Police, who have relinquished command of the investigation, now under the Alabama Law Enforcement

Agency, sent out an updated press release, saying that they regret that their original information may have been

inaccurate and that Bradford Jr., "did not likely" commit the crime that led to his shooting by police. 

At least one shooter is still unaccounted for and a weapon was recovered on the scene. Alabama is an open-carry

state. 

Social justice advocates seized on the news, clamoring for justice for Bradford Jr., including activist Shaun King,

who took to Twitter to spread the story to his 1 million followers. A protest of the shooting and Hoover Police's

response was quickly organized for Saturday. 

While photos and social media posts cited Bradford Jr.'s service in the Army, CNN reported that Bradford did not

complete training and had not served, according to an Army spokesperson. 
 
 


 
The family of a Hoover man shot and killed on Thanksgiving joined a group of 40 demonstrators outside Attorney

General Steve Marshall's office Tuesday, protesting his decision to not charge the Hoover police officer involved. 

"There's been no respect showed from the beginning by the Attorney General," said Emantic Bradford Sr., the father

of Emantic "EJ" Bradford, Jr., shot and killed at the Riverchase Galleria on Nov. 22 after a police officer mistakenly

identified him as another shooter. "He never reached out to us. You're a coward." 

Demonstrators, at one point using a bullhorn, demanded Marshall come out to meet Bradford's family. 

"We know you're in there Steve," activist Frank Matthews said. "You didn't want to see the family, so we brought

them to see you." 

shootings. 

After an hour-long protest at one entrance, demonstrators moved to the main entrance of the building, which

officials had locked. Protesters chanted Bradford's name and put signs in the glass doors, condemning police

A heated but nonviolent confrontation took place there with about 20 city and state law enforcement officers. A

state trooper read the state statute on disorderly conduct three times, and was drowned out by protesters twice.

Two women were later arrested and charged with disorderly conduct for attempting to gain entrance to the

building. Other protesters said they were attempting to retrieve signs. 

A message seeking comment was sent to the Alabama Attorney General's office Tuesday afternoon. 

On Nov. 22, 18-year-old Brian Wilson and a 12-year-old bystander were injured when a man fired a gun at the

Riverchase Galleria Mall in Hoover. An officer who responded shot Bradford, who had drawn his own gun, three

times. Hoover police initially claimed Bradford was the shooter but said later they had misidentified him.

Bradford's family says he was running back to assist a friend. 

Erron Martez Dequon Brown, 20, was arrested in Atlanta on Nov. 29 and has been charged with attempted murder

in the shooting. 

gunshots." 

Marshall intervened in the investigation, citing Jefferson County District Attorney Danny Carr's acquaintance with

protesters and issued a report on Monday saying the officer who shot Bradford "reasonably exercised his official

powers." The report said within a second of the shooting of Wilson, Bradford drew a gun and "ran toward the

According to the report, the officer shot Bradford within two seconds. Some witnesses quoted in the report said

they also believed Bradford was the shooter at the time. 

"A reasonable person could have assumed that the only person with a gun who was running toward the victim of a

shooting that occurred just three seconds earlier fired the shots," the report said. 

The family sharply criticized the report. As the attorney general's report acknowledges, the officer who shot

Bradford said he did not give any commands ordering him to drop his weapon, due to the speed of the situation. 

Bradford's family said he was trying to wave people from the shooting, and that he initially ran from the scene but

went back to assist a friend. 

CREDIT: Brian Lyman 
 

Shootings; Attorneys general; Demonstrations &protests; Murders &murder attempts

Location:

Alabama Atlanta Georgia

Publication title:

Montgomery Advertiser; Montgomery, Ala.



 
JEMEL ROBERSON was on the job as a security guard at a bar in the Chicago suburbs when a shooting broke out

in the early hours of Nov. 11. He had detained the suspect at gunpoint when police arrived and —seeing a black

man with a gun —shot and killed the 26-year-old. A "tragic incident," said the Midlothian police chief, noting the

department was "completely saddened" and offering "heartfelt condolences." 

Less than two weeks later, on Thanksgiving night, gunfire erupted at a shopping mall in Alabama and police again

ended up shooting the wrong person, another young black man. Killed by an off-duty police officer working security

at the Riverchase Galleria was 21-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr. A "chaotic scene" was the description of

the Hoover Police Department, reporting that Mr. Bradford had a gun that "heightened the sense of threat" to

police. Mr. Bradford's family pointed out he was licensed to carry a firearm, that it's not illegal to carry a gun in

public in Alabama and that he likely pulled it out trying to protect shoppers. 

The two shootings raise issues that are central to the national debate about the troubling racial disparities that

exist in law enforcement and the use of lethal force by police. They underscore that African Americans are more

likely to be shot and killed by police than their white peers. There are particular dangers faced by African American

gun owners when they interact with police. Who can forget, for example, how Philando Castile was killed after he

told a Minnesota police officer who had pulled him over that he had a legal firearm and was shot while reaching for

his wallet to provide proof? 

"It's the continued narrative that we see of shoot first, ask questions later," said a minister at one of the churches

where Mr. Roberson assisted. "If you happen to be black, police see you as a criminal and they shoot and kill you,"

said an attorney representing Mr. Bradford's family. 

Both recent shootings are the subjects of ongoing investigations. There are many unanswered questions, and

authorities in both incidents need to be much more forthcoming about the circumstances that resulted in the

deaths of these two innocent men. Particularly troubling have been the drastically shifting accounts of officials in

Alabama. 

The fatal shootings also undermine the contention of gun rights extremists that the solution to gun violence is not

sensible gun safety regulation but rather arming more people. "If they had protection inside, the results would have

been far better," President Trump said after 11 people were killed at a synagogue in Pittsburgh. Mr. Roberson was

the National Rifle Association's proverbial "good guy with a gun," and he ended up dead, leaving behind a 9-month-

old child and another baby on the way. That Mr. Bradford was killed while the real shooter escaped illustrates the

chaos and confusion that accompany shootings and the fact that even those whose job is to protect the public

make mistakes that result in terrible tragedy. 

Credit: By Editorial Board 
 
 


 
HOOVER, Ala. —Protesters on Saturday marched through an Alabama shopping mall where police killed a black

man they later acknowledged was not the triggerman in a Thanksgiving night shooting that wounded two people. 

An officer shot and killed 21-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford, Jr. of Hueytown while responding to the

Thursday mall shooting. Police said Bradford was fleeing the scene with a handgun. 

Hoover police initially told reporters Bradford had shot a teen at the mall, but later retracted the statement. 

"We knew that was false," said stepmother Cynthia Bradford when she heard police were blaming him for the

shooting. She described her stepson, who went by E.J., as a respectful young man whose father worked at a jail for

the Birmingham Police Department. 

Hoover Police Captain Gregg Rector said investigators now believe that more than two people were involved in the

initial fight ahead of the shooting, and that "at least one gunman" is still at large who could be responsible. Police

said while Bradford "may have been involved in some aspect of the altercation, he likely did not fire the rounds that

injured the 18-year-old victim." Rector said police regret that their initial statement about Bradford was not

accurate. 

Bradford was killed. 

The shooting remains under investigation, including whether Bradford played any role in the initial disturbance, 

The unanswered questions stirred emotions in the suburb outside the majority-black city of Birmingham. 

More than 200 demonstrators, including several relatives, chanted "E.J" and "no justice, no peace" as they marched

past Christmas shoppers at the mall. They held a moment of silence at the spot outside a shoe store where

Family members described their horror of finding out from social media that Bradford was dead. Video circulated

on social media of Bradford lying in a pool of blood on the mall floor. 

Speaking to The Associated Press on Saturday night from his family's home, Bradford's father Emantic Bradford

Sr. called his son, "a good kid, a very good kid." 

Bradford Sr. said his son had a permit to carry a weapon for self-defense. He said he doesn't know exactly what

happened at the mall, but said it was hurtful that police portrayed his son as the shooter. 

"They were so quick to rush to judgment. ... I knew my son didn't do that. People rushed to judgment. They

shouldn't have done that," Bradford Sr. said. 

to the AP whether such footage exists. 

Family members said they plan to ask to see body camera footage from officers. Hoover police have not confirmed

Carlos Chaverst, an activist in Birmingham who organized the protest, said that when authorities acknowledged

that the person killed was not the actual shooter, "that sent us in an uproar." More protests will be held in the

future to hold officials accountable, he added. 

"When we found out about this incident, there were questions from the jump. People were upset because a man

was shot and killed by police in our own backyard," he said. 

The incident began Thanksgiving night with a fight and shooting in suburban Birmingham at the Riverchase

Galleria, a mall crowded with Black Friday bargain hunters. An 18-year-old man was shot twice and a 12-year-old

bystander was shot in the back. Hoover police said Friday morning that the girl was in stable condition. 

The Alabama Law Enforcement Agency is investigating the incident since it is an officer-involved shooting. The

Hoover Police Department is conducting its own internal investigation. 
 
 


 
Nation 

HOOVER, Ala. - A man killed by a police officer after a Thanksgiving night shooting at an Alabama shopping mall,

was "likely" not the gunman who shot a teenager earlier that evening, police clarified Friday. 

The incident began with a fight and shooting Thanksgiving night in the glitzy mall crowded with Black Friday

bargain hunters. An 18-year-old was shot twice and a 12-year-old bystander was shot in the back. 

An officer responding to the scene then shot and killed 21-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford, Jr., of Hueytown,

who police said was fleeing the scene and brandishing a weapon. Police initially told reporters they thought

Bradford had shot the teen after a fight but retracted that statement Friday night. 

Vermont couple search for peacock among turkeys 

SPRINGFIELD, Vt. - A Vermont woman whose family peacock ran off with a flock of turkeys says she's hopeful to

get close enough to catch it with a net. 

The peacock belonging to Rene and Brian Johnson has been on the run for six weeks. 

On Wednesday, the Johnsons posted a message on the Vermont Fish and Wildlife Facebook page: "My peacock

has run off with the turkeys. Do you have any suggestions on how to catch the little twerp?" 

Rene Johnson told WCAX-TV she thinks the bird she calls Pea was lonely so it sought turkey companions. 

Genital mutilation ruling shocks women's advocates 

MINNEAPOLIS - Women's rights advocates said they were shocked when a federal judge in Michigan ruled this

week that a law protecting girls from genital mutilation was unconstitutional. They called his decision a serious

blow to girls' rights. Legal experts said the judge made clear that U.S. states have authority to ban the practice,

though only about half do. 

Dr. Jumana Nagarwala was among eight people charged in federal court in Michigan in connection with the genital

mutilation of nine girls from Michigan, Minnesota and Illinois between 2015 and 2017. 

Authorities alleged that mothers brought their girls to Nagarwala when they were roughly 7 years old for the

Nagarwala has denied any crime was committed and said she performed a religious custom on girls from her

Muslim sect, the India-based Dawoodi Bohra. 

Female circumcision; Genital mutilation

Alabama United States--US Michigan Vermont India Illinois Minnesota

Nagarwala, Jumana

Company / organization:

Name: Dawoodi Bohra; NAICS: 813110; Name: Facebook Inc; NAICS: 518210, 519130

procedure. 

From wire reports 
 
 


 
April Pipkins, holding a picture of her slain son, had just started talking about the trauma of his shooting death by

Alabama police when she paused Tuesday night during a town hall and prayer meeting for him. 

"I'm just at a loss of words. I'm trying to be strong during this time and hold up, you know," Pipkins told a gathering

at Birmingham's 16th Street Baptist Church about Emantic Bradford Jr.'s shooting death last week at a mall. 

She put her head in her hand and, after a few seconds, fell back into the arms of her attorney. 

Pipkins fainted, attorney Ben Crump said, and was sent to a hospital, where she was being evaluated. 

"The doctor said she's going to be OK," Crump said. Further details about her condition weren't immediately

Pipkins and her family have demanded answers from police about the Thanksgiving night shooting at the

Hoover police initially said Bradford, 21, shot a 12- and an 18-year-old in the mall after a fight, and that an officer

available. 

Riverchase Galleria in nearby Hoover. 

killed him as he fled, brandishing a gun. 

But police later changed the story, saying witnesses and forensic tests indicated that while Bradford may have

been involved in an altercation at the mall, he likely did not fire the rounds that injured the victims. 

The initial shooter, who has not been publicly identified, remains at large, and the officer who was working as mall

security when he killed Bradford is on administrative leave pending an investigation, police say. 

Crump, a civil rights attorney representing Bradford's family, has leveled a series of allegations, including that

Bradford actually was trying to help victims to safety when he was shot; that the officer who killed him didn't warn

him before shooting; and that police didn't give him medical assistance as he lay dying. 

Pipkins was one of several speakers at Tuesday evening's church gathering. 

Jefferson County Commissioner Sheila Tyson gave a fiery speech about boycotting the mall, CNN affiliate WVTM

reported. And Bradford's father emotionally shared memories of his son. 

"I can't hear him say 'Daddy' no more," Emantic Bradford Sr. said, according to WVTM. "You'll never walk through

my door and call my name again." 

'They want answers' 

Hoover Mayor Frank V. Brocato, Police Chief Nicholas Derzis and other city officials met with the Bradford family

Tuesday night and apologized for initially identifying Bradford as the gunman, then saying he likely wasn't the

gunman, according to Tyson, who also attended the meeting. 

CNN has not been able to independently verify what occurred in the meeting. Brocato could not be reached.

"The family was open they want answers," Tyson said in an interview on Wednesday. "They don't just want to meet,

Neither could Hoover police or Crump. 

they want answers." 

'He's in a lot of pain' 

his attorney, John C. Robbins. 

Brian Wilson, the 18-year-old victim, is recovering at a hospital after he was shot in the side and the abdomen, said

"He's in a lot of pain," Robbins told CNN Wednesday. "We anticipate a full recovery, but it's going to take some

time." 

Thursday. 

Wilson and Bradford were friends, according to Robbins. He said his client was upset about Bradford's death. 

Wilson, who is enrolled in a trade school to become a welder, went to the mall to do Christmas shopping last

The attorney declined to give additional details about the incident. 

In a statement, Robbins said Wilson's family offers condolences to the Bradfords and prayers for the 12-year-old

victim, who also is recovering. 

"The Wilson Family hopes that this tragic event will lead to real, open and honest dialogue not only between the

African-American community and the police, but also the entire community must be involved in this discussion,"

the statement said. "Reckless police shootings of young black man must stop. But they will not end until there is

rational and productive communication between the entire community and the police force whose duty it is to

protect that community." 

"So let it begin in Birmingham, and let it begin now," the statement said. 
 
 


 
Publication: The Signal, College of New Jersey, Ewing Township NJ. 

By Alexandra Parado  

Sports Editor  

On Thanksgiving night on Nov. 22, 21-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr. was shot in the face by an off-duty

police officer working security at Riverchase Galleria Mall in Hoover, Alabama, according to NBC News. Bradford’s

family receives his body almost a week after the shooting. (Youtube)  

According to the initial report, Bradford was engaged in a fight with an 18-year-old when he pulled out a gun and

shot the young person. A 12-year-old bystander was also wounded during the incident, NPR reported.  

The officer’s name has not yet been released, but according to NPR, his actions were initially seen as “heroic” by

his peers. They later retracted the statement, saying that it was unlikely that Bradford was responsible for firing the

shots that injured those people.  

Bradford, an Army veteran, held a permit to carry a weapon, his family reported to CNN. After hearing gunshots in

the mall go off, Bradford pulled out his gun in attempt to help people get to safety. Without issuing a warning

before opening fire, the police officer fatally shot Bradford.  

Bradford received no medical attention from police after the shooting, according to NPR.  

CNN reported that the real shooter is still at large. Hoover police and Mayor Frank Brocato expressed his sympathy

for Bradford’s family. Though they offered sympathy, Hoover police has not issued an apology to his family for the

incident.  

According to NPR, the officer who shot Bradford has been placed on paid administrative leave.  

Bradford’s family members were not immediately contacted by Hoover police about the death of their son. Instead,

the family found out about his death through social media, according to NPR.  

E.J. Bradford Sr., Bradford’s father and a retired correctional officer, called Hoover police at 12:30 a.m. the night of

the shooting and was told they would call him back. Hoover police gave a media briefing before reaching out to the

Bradford family. In an article published by CNN, Bradford Sr. demanded that investigators immediately release all

video of the incident.  

All evidence of body camera videos have been handed over to the Alabama Law Enforcement Agency to lead the

investigation according to NBC News. ALEA will decide when to release the evidence.  

Bradford’s family has hired an attorney, Ben Crump, to represent them. Crump has also represented other black

men who have been killed by police or others, including Trayvon Martin and Michael Brown, according to NPR.  

On Nov. 27, five days after the shooting, his family eventually received a phone call from Hoover police, Crump

explained to The Guardian. They also received their son’s body in preparation for his funeral, according to The

Guardian. Related  

Credit: Alexandra Parado 
 
 


 
HOOVER, Ala.  A joint statement by the City of Hoover and the Hoover Police Department has been released

promising transparency in the investigation of a fatal officer-involved shooting at the Riverchase Galleria. 

Officials say they will be providing weekly updates on the case that left a 21-year-old man dead on Thanksgiving

night every Monday morning to keep the public informed. 

Beginning today, we will provide weekly updates to news media each Monday by 10:30 a.m. Central time. We hope

this helps keep the media and the public informed of what we know and are able to share without jeopardizing the

investigation. We will also keep the public informed of any developments through our website and the social media

pages belonging to the City and to the Police Department. Should significant developments occur prior to any

given regular Monday update, we will provide that news as soon as we can. 

Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr. was shot and killed in a shooting that injured a 12-year-old girl and an 18-year-old

male during Black Friday shopping. 

The full post is below. 
 
 


 
JEMEL ROBERSON was on the job as a security guard at a bar in the Chicago suburbs when a shooting broke out

in the early hours of Nov. 11. He had detained the suspect at gunpoint when police arrived and - seeing a black

man with a gun - shot and killed the 26-year-old. A "tragic incident," said the Midlothian police chief, noting the

department was "completely saddened" and offering "heartfelt condolences." 

Less than two weeks later, on Thanksgiving night, gunfire erupted at a shopping mall in Alabama and police again

ended up shooting the wrong person, another young black man. Killed by an off-duty police officer working security

at the Riverchase Galleria was 21-year-old Emantic Fitzgerald Bradford Jr. A "chaotic scene" was the description of

the Hoover Police Department, reporting that Mr. Bradford had a gun that "heightened the sense of threat" to

police. Mr. Bradford's family pointed out he was licensed to carry a firearm, that it's not illegal to carry a gun in

public in Alabama and that he likely pulled it out trying to protect shoppers. 

The two shootings raise issues that are central to the national debate about the troubling racial disparities that

exist in law enforcement and the use of lethal force by police. They underscore that African Americans are more

likely to be shot and killed by police than their white peers. There are particular dangers faced by African American

gun owners when they interact with police. Who can forget, for example, how Philando Castile was killed after he

told a Minnesota police officer who had pulled him over that he had a legal firearm and was shot while reaching for

his wallet to provide proof? 

"It's the continued narrative that we see of shoot first, ask questions later," said a minister at one of the churches

where Mr. Roberson assisted. "If you happen to be black, police see you as a criminal and they shoot and kill you,"

said an attorney representing Mr. Bradford's family. 

Both recent shootings are the subjects of ongoing investigations. There are many unanswered questions, and

authorities in both incidents need to be much more forthcoming about the circumstances that resulted in the

deaths of these two innocent men. Particularly troubling have been the drastically shifting accounts of officials in

Alabama. 

The fatal shootings also undermine the contention of gun rights extremists that the solution to gun violence is not

sensible gun safety regulation but rather arming more people. "If they had protection inside, the results would have

been far better," President Trump said after 11 people were killed at a synagogue in Pittsburgh. Mr. Roberson was

the National Rifle Association's proverbial "good guy with a gun," and he ended up dead, leaving behind a 9-month-

old child and another baby on the way. That Mr. Bradford was killed while the real shooter escaped illustrates the

chaos and confusion that accompany shootings and the fact that even those whose job is to protect the public

make mistakes that result in terrible tragedy. 

Credit: Editorial Board 
 
 


Suit filed over shooting death by undercover - Associated Press State
Wire: Pennsylvania (PA) - February 27, 2019
February 27, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA)

PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Relatives of a motorist shot and killed by an undercover Philadelphia police
officer last summer have announced a lawsuit against the officer and the city, alleging that the
shooting was "unnecessary" and "excessive."

T he Philadelphia Inquirer reports that the lawsuit alleges that the civil rights of 36-year-old Jef f rey
Jef f rey
Dennis
Dennis  were violated. It alleges improper training by the police department on use of deadly force
and calls the shooting "objectively unnecessary, excessive, and unreasonable under the
circumstances."

Police said officers blocked Dennis's car during an Aug. 20 drug investigation, but he tried to drive
away, striking cars and an officer, and was shot. Three officers were injured.

Attorney General Josh Shapiro earlier said no charges would be filed. Police declined comment on
the lawsuit or any disciplinary action in the case.

___

Information from: T he Philadelphia Inquirer, http://www.inquirer.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 

 
THE relatives of a Tacony man fatally shot by an undercover Philadelphia police officer last year have sued the

officer and the city, claiming that the Police Department failed to properly train its officers on the use of deadly

force, and that the shooting was "objectively unnecessary, excessive, and unreasonable under the circumstances." 

In a lawsuit filed in Common Pleas Court on Wednesday, family members of Jeffrey Dennis, 36, allege that Officer

Richard Nicoletti, a three-decade member of the force assigned to the Narcotics Field Unit at the time of the

shooting, violated Dennis' civil rights during the fatal encounter Aug. 20, 2018, on the 7100 block of Hegerman

Street. 

"Nicoletti embarked on a willful, malicious, reckless, and outrageous course of conduct that was intended to cause,

and in fact did cause, Dennis' death," the family's complaint says. 

City spokesperson Mike Dunn declined to comment on the lawsuit, saying city officials were still reviewing it. 

Nicoletti in December was cleared of criminal wrongdoing by the Attorney General's Office, which weighed criminal

charges in the case because Philadelphia District Attorney Larry Krasner, formerly a defense attorney, once

represented Dennis. 

At a news conference Wednesday, Tiffany Fortune, the mother of Dennis' 7-year-old daughter, one of his three

children, said they had been "robbed" by Nicoletti's actions. 

"My child will be able to Google how her father was killed," Fortune said. 

Attorney General Josh Shapiro said in a statement in December that his office determined there was not enough

evidence to support criminal charges. His office released surveillance video of the shooting after announcing the

decision. 

Nicoletti was part of a group of narcotics officers preparing to raid Dennis' home on the 7100 block of Cottage

Street when they spotted Dennis driving a Toyota Camry on Hegerman. Two unmarked cars blocked Dennis' path,

and plainclothes officers surrounded his sedan. When Dennis tried to drive away, Nicoletti fired several shots

through the driver's window at point-blank range. Dennis was declared dead at the scene minutes later. 

Daniel Purtell, one of the attorneys for Dennis' estate, said at Wednesday's news conference that he and the family

"categorically" disagreed with Shapiro's decision, saying: "We still think that they murdered Jeffrey Dennis." 

Capt. Sekou Kinebrew, police spokesperson, said Wednesday that Internal Affairs had completed its investigation

into the incident, but that he could not comment on any disciplinary outcome because a final disposition had not

yet been reached. 

Nicoletti previously shot and wounded another man under similar circumstances in 2012, the Inquirer reported in

December. It was not clear whether he was disciplined over that shooting. 

In their lawsuit, Dennis' relatives filed counts of excessive force and assault against Nicoletti, as well as a claim

that the Police Department failed to properly train its officers. They asked for monetary damages in excess of

$150,000 for each count as well as punitive damages, according to the suit. 

cpalmer@phillynews.com 

215-854-2817 cs_palmer 

Credit: By Chris Palmer STAFF WRITER 

Illustration 

Publication title:

Philadelphia Daily News; Philadelphia, Pa.

Jeffrey Dennis:Fatally shot in August. 
 
 


 
RELATIVES of a man shot and killed by undercover police in Tacony this week met with Police Commissioner

Richard Ross on Thursday to express their concerns about the incident, according to a lawyer for the family. 

The head of the police union, meanwhile, issued a letter asking for people "to hold judgment until all facts are

known," adding: "It's unfortunate that city leaders and others are prematurely second-guessing the tactics of police

officers during a volatile and chaotic situation that [led] to the death of an alleged drug suspect." 

The developments marked the latest fallout from Monday's shooting, in which a plainclothes officer - identified by

the Police Department late Thursday as Richard Nicoletti, a 29-year veteran assigned to the Narcotics Field Unit -

fatally shot 36-year-old Jeffrey Dennis. 

Police have said Dennis drove his Toyota Camry into another officer as police confronted him while preparing to

execute a search warrant for narcotics at his house, on the 7100 block of Cottage Street. 

Three officers were injured during the incident, according to police. Dennis was shot in the head and left arm and

declared dead at the scene at 4:18 p.m. 

to mourn Dennis' death. 

Wednesday night, hundreds of people gathered at the site of the shooting, on the 7100 block of Hegerman Street,

Lee Merritt, a lawyer for Dennis' relatives, said Thursday that family members met with Ross to ask for a

transparent investigation and to detail their concerns. Merritt said that family members hope to be allowed to

review surveillance video of the shooting and that they want the officers involved to be fired and criminally

charged. 

guilty." 

The Police Department's officer-involved-shooting unit is investigating and the state Attorney General's Office will

determine whether criminal charges are warranted. 

The Philadelphia District Attorney's Office referred the case to the attorney general because top prosecutor Larry

Krasner, formerly a defense attorney, had previously represented Dennis, according to spokesperson Ben Waxman. 

Ross told a reporter for NBC10 this week that "quite candidly we have some concerns about the shooting too,

some of the tactics that were used." Mayor Kenney also issued a statement saying in part: "My prayers are with the

family and friends of Jeffrey Dennis. It is always tragic to lose someone you love. I am relieved there were no life

threatening injuries to the police officers." 

The letter from the head of the police union, John McNesby, which was released Thursday, said: "Officers are

entitled to due process of law like every other citizen. And our officers are also presumed innocent until proven

Merritt said that Dennis had three children, ages 6, 11, and 17, and that he had recently gotten engaged. 

According to police, undercover officers with the Narcotics Field Unit were conducting surveillance on Dennis'

house and were preparing to execute a search warrant there when they saw him driving the Camry. 

Six officers in three unmarked police vehicles followed him and then tried to block him with their cars on

Hegerman. Dennis attempted to flee from the makeshift barricade, police said, but his car struck several vehicles,

and after an officer shattered the driver's door window, he drove into an officer. 

At that point, police said, Nicoletti fired three shots at Dennis. He has been put on desk duty pending the

investigation into the shooting. 

Jeffrey Dennis, who was fatally shot by an undercover cop in Tacony on Monday. COURTESY LEE MERRITT /

Publication title:

Philadelphia Daily News; Philadelphia, Pa.

CPalmer@phillynews.com 

215-854-2817 

@cs_palmer 

Illustration 

Credit: By Chris Palmer STAFF WRITER 

DENNIS FAMILY ATTORNEY 
 
 


Lawyer raises concerns about Philadelphia police - Associated Press
News Service, The - August 23, 2018
August 23, 2018 | Associated Press News Service, The | CLAUDIA LAUER Associated Press

PHILADELPHIA (AP) — A lawyer for the family of a man killed by Philadelphia police has raised
questions about the officer's use of force a day after Philadelphia Police Commissioner Richard
Ross Jr. told a reporter that he had concerns about the tactics used during the incident.

Attorney Lee Merritt said Wednesday that he has talked to numerous witnesses about the Monday
fatal police shooting of 36-year-old Jef f rey Dennis
Jef f rey Dennis . He raised concerns that the officer positioned
farthest from Dennis fired his weapon, killing the unarmed man, while the other officers standing
closest to Dennis did not perceive a threat.

"It's very rare when you have a group of officers in a situation like this, that when one of them
discharges their weapon, the others don't," Merritt said. "When you believe there is a danger and
you hear a gunshot, since you don't know where it came from, the training kicks in and the other
officers will usually fire their weapons. T hey were so certain there was no threat ... they didn't
engage."

Police officials said the plainclothes officers were conducting surveillance on a house for a
narcotics investigation, when one of the officers saw Dennis' car. T he car and its license plate had
been identified as associated with the address they were watching.

Police said the six officers used their three unmarked cars to block Dennis' car in place as he drove
by boxing him in. T he officers said they exited the cars, approached Dennis and ordered him to
shut the engine off.

T he officers said Dennis began using his car to strike the unmarked police vehicles and after an
officer broke his window, Dennis maneuvered the car and struck one of the officers. An
unidentified officer fired three shots and struck Dennis in the head and shoulder.

In all, three officers were taken to the hospital. One was admitted in good condition, a second was
treated for cuts and a third was treated for hand injuries.

Merritt said he will be asking to review a surveillance video from a nearby business that was
confiscated by officers after the incident. He said he has been told the plainclothes officers and
unmarked cars did not have body or dash cameras.

"I don't know how they are arguing that he used his car as a battering ram when witnesses said an
unmarked car came at him the wrong way down a one-way street and curved into his car," Merritt
said. "I also have some questions about the officers' injuries. I don't think the medical evidence or
the injuries are consistent with being struck by a vehicle."

A WCAU reporter asked Ross about the shooting Tuesday as he exited his car at police
headquarters.

"It was a volatile situation and quite candidly we have some concerns about the shooting too,
some of the tactics that were used," he said. "We're looking at it all very, very closely."

Philadelphia Police Department policy directives state, "Police officers shall not discharge their
firearms AT  a vehicle unless a person in the vehicle is immediately threatening the officer or
another person with deadly force by means other than the vehicle (e.g., officers or civilians are
being fired upon by the occupants of the vehicle)."

T he policy directive goes on to say that officers shall not remain in the path of a vehicle, and that
being in the path of a vehicle is not justification for discharging a weapon.

Philadelphia District Attorney Larry Krasner has notified the Pennsylvania attorney general's office
that he has recused himself and his office from investigating the shooting. A DA's office
spokesman confirmed that Krasner was Dennis' criminal defense attorney a few years ago when
he was facing drug charges.

A spokesman for Attorney General Josh Shapiro said Wednesday that he had accepted the referral
and the office would be reviewing all the evidence in the case.

A vigil for Dennis and a march in the police district where Merritt said three unarmed black men
have been killed by police in the last year were scheduled for Wednesday night.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Associated Press All Rights Reserved

 

 
Philadelphia police on Tuesday identified the 36-year-old man fatally shot by an officer after the man allegedly

struck another officer with a car Monday afternoon in the city's Tacony section. 

Jeffrey Dennis, of the 7100 block of Cottage Street, was shot in the head and left arm while behind the wheel of a

black 2010 Toyota Camry in the 7100 block of Hegerman Street, police said. He was pronounced dead at the scene

by medics. 

The 53-year-old officer, a 10-year veteran who fired three rounds at Dennis, was not named. 

The officer who was struck by the Camry was taken to Jefferson Torresdale Hospital to be treated for leg injuries

and was admitted in good condition, police said. Two other officers were taken to the same hospital and were

treated for minor injuries and released. 

Police gave the following account of what happened: 

Shortly after 4 p.m. undercover officers with the Narcotics Field Unit were conducting surveillance on Dennis'

house on Cottage Street and were preparing to execute a search warrant when they saw Dennis driving the Camry. 

Six officers in three unmarked police vehicles followed Dennis and then maneuvered to block the Camry on

Hegerman Street. At that point, police said, Dennis began driving the Camry back and forth striking the police cars

in front and behind him. 

All six officers got out of their cars and one used what is known as a Halligan bar, an ax-type tool used by

firefighters and law enforcement, to shatter the driver's door window. 

It was then that Dennis struck one of the officers with the Camry and then was shot by another officer positioned

That officer has been assigned to desk duty while the shooting is investigated by Internal Affairs. 

Publication title:

Philadelphia Inquirer; Philadelphia, Pa.

next to the driver's door. 

bmoran@phillynews.com 

215-854-5983 @RobertMoran215 

Credit: By Robert Moran STAFF WRITER 
 
 


 
No charges will be filed against a police officer who shot and killed a Black man in Philadelphia's Tacony

neighborhood over the summer. 

in the fatal shooting of Jeffrey Dennis, 36. 

Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro announced Tuesday that officer Richard Nicoletti will not be charged

"My office conducted a thorough four-month review of this case, interviewing witnesses, examining video footage,

and analyzing all available evidence," Shapiro said. "We applied the facts to Pennsylvania law, and accordingly, no

criminal charges against Richard Nicoletti will be filed by my office." 

On Aug. 20, Nicoletti, a 29-year veteran assigned to the Narcotics Field Unit, along with five other officers were

conducting an undercover investigation on the 7100 block of Cottage Street. 

The officers were preparing to execute a search warrant at the home and were conducting surveillance when they

spotted a 2010 Toyota Camry driven by Dennis. Investigators say they identified the vehicle as being involved with

prior drug activity at the home targeted in the warrant. 

Surveillance video shows Nicoletti and the other officers using their unmarked police vehicles to box in the Toyota

Camry. The officers then left their vehicles and approached the Camry. Police say Dennis failed to listen to their

commands to shut the engine off and began striking the police vehicles with his car. 

One of the officers then shattered the driver's side window as Dennis continued trying to escape, investigators

said. Police said one of the officers was struck by Dennis' vehicle. 

Nicoletti, who was near the driver's door of the Camry, then fired three shots, striking Dennis in the head and left

arm. A medic arrived at the scene and Dennis was pronounced dead. Three of the responding officers suffered

minor injuries during the incident. 

Philadelphia Police Department policy directives state: "Police officers shall not discharge their firearms AT a

vehicle unless a person in the vehicle is immediately threatening the officer or another person with deadly force by

means other than the vehicle (e.g., officers or civilians are being fired upon by the occupants of the vehicle)." 

The policy directive goes on to say that officers shall not remain in the path of a vehicle, and that being in the path

of a vehicle is not justification for discharging a weapon. 

Police Commissioner Richard Ross said in August that it was "a volatile situation." 

"Quite candidly we have some concerns about the shooting, too, some of the tactics that were used," Ross said.

"We're looking very, very closely." 

Ross met with Dennis' family and answered their questions. They called for Nicoletti to be removed from the police

force and to be charged with premeditated murder. Nicoletti was placed on administrative leave. 

The Philadelphia Fraternal Order of Police called for due process for the officers involved. 

"It's unfortunate that city leaders and others are prematurely second-guessing the tactics of police officers during

a volatile and chaotic situation that lead to the death of an alleged drug suspect," FOP Lodge 5 President John

McNesby said in a written statement following the shooting. "...We ask everyone to hold judgment until all the

facts are known and a complete investigation has been undertaken." 

Philadelphia District Attorney Larry Krasner recused himself and his office from investigating the matter. A

spokesman for Krasner confirmed he was Dennis' criminal defense attorney a few years ago when he was facing

drug charges. 

Shapiro then accepted the referral and his office handled the investigation. 

"Violations of police procedure do not always rise to the level of criminal charges," Shapiro wrote. "Whether

Philadelphia Police Department procedure was followed during this incident was not in the scope of our

investigation, and will be addressed by Commissioner Ross and the Department." 

Shapiro said he met with Dennis' family multiple times during the investigation and that he informed them Tuesday

"Mr. Dennis' death leaves a family in mourning and children missing their father, and I am deeply saddened by that

The state attorney general said his office released the surveillance video of the incident in order to "promote

of the decision to not file charges. 

loss," Shapiro wrote. 

transparency." 

"I know the outcome of this case is frustrating to some, and I understand the very real mistrust that exists between

our communities and law enforcement," Shapiro said. 

"I swore an oath to assess the findings of every investigation and apply them to the law, which is what the Office of

Attorney General has done in this case and does in every case," he added. - (NBC10) 
 
 


 
THE Philadelphia narcotics officer who fatally shot a suspect during a confrontation in Tacony in August - an

action the Attorney General's Office declared this month was justified under the law - shot and wounded another

man under similar circumstances in 2012, according to department records. 

The documents also say that the officer, Richard Nicoletti, a 29-year veteran of the force, had four prior "firearm

discharge incidents" before the 2012 shooting. The documents do not detail those incidents, but Police

Commissioner Richard Ross said they involved dogs, not people. 

The records were compiled by the department's Internal Affairs Division as it reviewed Nicoletti's conduct six years

ago, and were shared at the time with public defenders who represented the man shot by the officer, Maurice

Chelteham. The Defender Association of Philadelphia found them in its files and made them available to the

Inquirer and Daily News this week. 

pattern of behavior by the officer. 

"We just feel it's important that the public be informed," said Michael Mellon, a lawyer from the association. 

Lee Merritt, a lawyer for the family of the man killed this year, Jeffrey Dennis, said the records show a problematic

"What was particularly frustrating about it, the family has encouraged the state to press criminal charges against

[Nicoletti] ... and none of that information was made available," Merritt said. 

Joe Grace, a spokesperson for Attorney General Josh Shapiro, declined Wednesday to offer specifics on the

office's review of the Aug. 20 shooting on the 7100 block of Hegerman Street. But he said: "We conducted a

complete and thorough investigation into this matter, including a full review of the officer's personnel file, and

considered all relevant information before making our decision." 

Police have said that Nicoletti and a group of plainclothes officers had been preparing to raid Dennis' nearby house

on a drug warrant but came upon him in a Toyota Camry. According to surveillance video released by state

prosecutors, the officers parked their unmarked police vehicles around the Camry, boxing him in when Dennis, 36,

rammed the cars while trying to drive away. Dennis remained behind the wheel when Nicoletti fired several point-

blank shots, killing him. 

Six and a half years earlier, Nicoletti had been working with narcotics officers when, according to Internal Affairs

documents, they went to another site in Tacony - 6300 Edmund St. - to buy drugs from Chelteham, who was seated

inside a 2011 Toyota Corolla with another person, the documents indicate. 

After officers parked their unmarked cars in front of and behind the Corolla, Chelteham drove in reverse into one of

the unmarked police cars, according to documents, then drove toward two officers, at which point Nicoletti fired a

shot that struck Chelteham in the left side. Chelteham - found with four packets of heroin, according to the

documents - survived and was charged with aggravated assault, simple assault, and related counts. He later

pleaded guilty to lesser charges and received a 1- to three-year prison sentence, according to court records. 

A witness, whose name was redacted in the documents, told police that she saw several men pointing their guns

at the Corolla, and "saw one of the guys shoot at the car." She did not know that the men who surrounded

Chelteham were police officers, her statement said. 

The records show that Sgt. James Shuck of the Narcotics Field Unit told Internal Affairs at the time that he was on

the scene, and that he believed the officers were "20 to 25 feet" away from the suspect when Chelteham started

driving toward them and Nicoletti shot him. 

Chelteham - whose name is also spelled Cheatham in the Internal Affairs files - was hospitalized in critical

condition after that incident. He was unavailable for comment Wednesday, imprisoned on a drug case from 2015,

according to court records. 

others cited in his files. 

It was not clear Wednesday night whether Nicoletti had been disciplined over that 2012 shooting or any of the

Current police directives generally prohibit officers from shooting at people in cars. They also instruct officers not

to box in fleeing cars by surrounding them with police vehicles. Neither of the men shot by Nicoletti was accused

of having weapons during their encounters with police. 

Ross said the Police Board of Inquiry held a hearing Tuesday to discuss whether Nicoletti should be disciplined for

shooting Dennis. That decision is pending. He has been put on desk duty pending the investigation; attempts to

reach him by phone Wednesday were unsuccessful. 

John McNesby, president of Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 5, said Wednesday that he did not know the facts of

the 2012 case, but that he did not believe Nicoletti should lose his job over the August incident. 

"It's unfortunate someone lost their life that day, but we're out there doing work that a lot of people don't want to

do," McNesby said. 

cpalmer@phillynews.com 

215-854-2817 

cs_palmer 

Credit: By Chris Palmer STAFF WRITER 

Illustration 

Dennis 
 
 


 
AN UNDERCOVER Philadelphia officer will not face criminal charges in the fatal shooting of a Tacony man during a

police drug investigation in August, state Attorney General Josh Shapiro announced Tuesday. 

The action clears Officer Richard Nicoletti, a 29-year veteran assigned to the Narcotics Field Unit, from prosecution

in the death of Jeffrey Dennis, 36, who was killed on Aug. 20 while officers were preparing to raid his home on the

7100 block of Cottage Street. 

Shapiro launched an investigation into the shooting after the case was handed off by Philadelphia District Attorney

Larry Krasner due to a potential conflict of interest. Krasner, formerly a defense attorney, once represented Dennis. 

"My office conducted a thorough four-month review of this case, interviewing witnesses, examining video footage,

and analyzing all available evidence," Shapiro said in a statement. "We applied the facts to Pennsylvania law, and

accordingly, no criminal charges against Richard Nicoletti will be filed by my office." 

Shapiro's decision does not completely spare Nicoletti, who was placed on desk duty pending the investigation's

outcome. The Police Department on Tuesday released a statement indicating that it has an ongoing investigation

into the shooting. 

"There remain phases of the Police Department's internal review process that have not yet been completed," the

statement read. "We will provide additional comment as those phases move toward completion." 

The District Attorney's Office declined to comment. 

Dennis was a father of three children - ages 7, 11, and 17 - and had recently become engaged to be married. His

family had demanded that the officer involved in the shooting be fired and criminally charged. The family could not

be reached for comment Tuesday. Its lawyer, Lee Merritt, said Shapiro did not do enough. 

"The AG has a responsibility to complete an investigation and empanel a grand jury. My biggest concern is that he

didn't do that," he said. 

route. 

The shooting happened shortly before 4:15 p.m. Officers preparing to search Dennis' home spotted him driving a

Toyota Camry on nearby Hegerman Street. Two unmarked cars moved to sandwich the Camry, blocking Dennis'

In a surveillance video released Tuesday by the Attorney General's Office, Dennis' car is seen ramming one of the

unmarked vehicles as five plainclothes officers rush toward the Camry with their service weapons drawn. Another

undercover officer runs toward the driver's side of the Camry with a long-handled hammer and shatters the

window, sending glass flying. 

In the video, Dennis attempts to turn his vehicle around. Nicoletti, in a gray T-shirt, approaches Dennis and shoots

at near-point-blank range. The Camry stops. The footage ends. Medics pronounced Dennis dead minutes later. 

Police Department policy forbids the discharge of shots into a moving vehicle. Protocols also prohibit shooting "to

subdue a fleeing individual who presents no immediate threat of death or serious physical injury to themselves or

another person." 

But Shapiro said violations of police procedures do not always rise to the level of criminal charges. 

"Whether the Philadelphia Police Department procedure was followed during this incident was not in the scope of

our investigation, and will be addressed by Commissioner Ross and the department," Shapiro said. 

Nicoletti could not be reached Tuesday. John McNesby, president of Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 5, said the

case had been "fairly and impartially reviewed." 

"It's unfortunate that someone lost their life that day, and we support Officer Nicoletti and other officers who were

out there on the scene that day," McNesby said in a statement. 

Ross did not respond to a request for comment. In August, he told an NBC10 reporter that "quite candidly, we have

some concerns about the shooting . . . some of the tactics that were used." 

Shapiro said he and senior investigators had met with the Dennis family several times, including Tuesday to inform

them of the decision not to prosecute. 

"Mr. Dennis' death leaves a family in mourning and children missing their father, and I am deeply saddened by that

loss," Shapiro said. "I know the outcome of this case is frustrating to some, and I understand the very real mistrust

that exists between our communities and law enforcement. I swore an oath to assess the findings of every

investigation and apply them to the law." 

Krasner in September charged a Philadelphia officer with murder in an on-duty shooting, the first time a city officer

was charged in an on-duty shooting in nearly two decades. In October, a judge downgraded that case to third-

degree murder. Officer Ryan Pownall was released on bail and is awaiting trial. 

Staff writer Chris Palmer contributed to this article. 

Jeffrey Dennis was killed on Aug. 20 while officers were preparing to raid his home on the 7100 block of Cottage

samwood@phillynews.com 

215-854-2796 

Credit: By Sam Wood STAFF WRITER 

Illustration 

Street in Tacony. 

PHOTO: LEE MERRITT 
 
 


 
PHILADELPHIA, Dec. 4 -- The Pennsylvania Attorney General's Office issued the following statement: 

Attorney General Josh Shapiro today issued a statement following the conclusion of his Office's investigation into

the August shooting death of Jeffrey Dennis during a Philadelphia police operation in the city's Tacony

neighborhood. The Office of Attorney General received the case from the Philadelphia District Attorney following a

conflict referral. 

"On August 20, undercover Philadelphia police officers were preparing to execute a search warrant at Mr. Dennis'

home for suspected narcotics violations," Attorney General Josh Shapiro said. "Officers identified Mr. Dennis

driving a car nearby, and took action to stop his vehicle. During the altercation, three police officers were injured

and another officer, Richard Nicoletti, discharged his firearm at Dennis, fatally injuring him." 

"My Office conducted a thorough four-month review of this case, interviewing witnesses, examining video footage,

and analyzing all available evidence. We applied the facts to Pennsylvania law, and accordingly, no criminal

charges against Richard Nicoletti will be filed by my Office." 

"Violations of police procedure do not always rise to the level of criminal charges. Whether Philadelphia Police

Department procedure was followed during this incident was not in the scope of our investigation, and will be

addressed by Commissioner Ross and the Department." 

"My senior team and I met with the Dennis family multiple times during our investigation, including earlier today to

inform them of this decision. Mr. Dennis' death leaves a family in mourning and children missing their father, and I

am deeply saddened by that loss." 

"I know the outcome of this case is frustrating to some, and I understand the very real mistrust that exists between

our communities and law enforcement. I swore an oath to assess the findings of every investigation and apply

them to the law, which is what the Office of Attorney General has done in this case and does in every case." 

"We must do better - as law enforcement, as leaders, as people - to rebuild that trust. Pennsylvanians' safety

depends on it, and I am committed to making our Commonwealth safer for every citizen." 

To promote transparency, the Office of Attorney General is today releasing the videotape of the incident. For any

query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at

contentservices@htlive.com 
 
 


 
The relatives of a Tacony man fatally shot by an undercover Philadelphia police officer last year have sued the

officer and the city, claiming that the Police Department failed to properly train its officers on the use of deadly

force, and that the shooting was "objectively unnecessary, excessive, and unreasonable under the circumstances." 

In a lawsuit filed in Common Pleas Court on Wednesday, family members of Jeffrey Dennis, 36, allege that Officer

Richard Nicoletti, a three-decade member of the force assigned to the Narcotics Field Unit at the time of the

shooting, violated Dennis' civil rights during the fatal encounter Aug. 20, 2018, on the 7100 block of Hegerman

Street. 

"Nicoletti embarked on a willful, malicious, reckless, and outrageous course of conduct that was intended to cause,

and in fact did cause, Dennis' death," the family's complaint says. 

City spokesperson Mike Dunn declined to comment on the lawsuit, saying city officials were still reviewing it. 

Nicoletti in December was cleared of criminal wrongdoing by the Attorney General's Office, which weighed criminal

charges in the case because Philadelphia District Attorney Larry Krasner, formerly a defense attorney, once

represented Dennis. 

At a news conference Wednesday, Tiffany Fortune, the mother of Dennis' 7-year-old daughter, one of his three

children, said they had been "robbed" by Nicoletti's actions. 

"My child will be able to Google how her father was killed," Fortune said. 

Attorney General Josh Shapiro said in a statement in December that his office determined there was not enough

evidence to support criminal charges. His office released surveillance video of the shooting after announcing the

decision. 

Nicoletti was part of a group of narcotics officers preparing to raid Dennis' home on the 7100 block of Cottage

Street when they spotted Dennis driving a Toyota Camry on Hegerman. Two unmarked cars blocked Dennis' path,

and plainclothes officers surrounded his sedan. When Dennis tried to drive away, Nicoletti fired several shots

through the driver's window at point-blank range. Dennis was declared dead at the scene minutes later. 

Daniel Purtell, one of the attorneys for Dennis' estate, said at Wednesday's news conference that he and the family

"categorically" disagreed with Shapiro's decision, saying: "We still think that they murdered Jeffrey Dennis." 

Capt. Sekou Kinebrew, police spokesperson, said Wednesday that Internal Affairs had completed its investigation

into the incident, but that he could not comment on any disciplinary outcome because a final disposition had not

yet been reached. 

Nicoletti previously shot and wounded another man under similar circumstances in 2012, the Inquirer reported in

December. It was not clear whether he was disciplined over that shooting. 

In their lawsuit, Dennis' relatives filed counts of excessive force and assault against Nicoletti, as well as a claim

that the Police Department failed to properly train its officers. They asked for monetary damages in excess of

$150,000 for each count as well as punitive damages, according to the suit. 

cpalmer@phillynews.com 

215-854-2817 

cs_palmer 

Credit: By Chris Palmer STAFF WRITER 

Publication title:

Philadelphia Inquirer; Philadelphia, Pa.

Illustration 

Jeffrey Dennis was fatally shot in 2018. 
 
 


 
An undercover Philadelphia officer will not face criminal charges in the fatal shooting of a Tacony man during a

police drug investigation in August, state Attorney General Josh Shapiro announced Tuesday. 

The action clears Officer Richard Nicoletti, a 29-year veteran assigned to the Narcotics Field Unit, from prosecution

in the death of Jeffrey Dennis, 36, who was killed on Aug. 20 while officers were preparing to raid his home on the

7100 block of Cottage Street. 

Shapiro launched an investigation into the shooting after the case was handed off by Philadelphia District Attorney

Larry Krasner due to a potential conflict of interest. Krasner, formerly a defense attorney, once represented Dennis. 

"My office conducted a thorough four-month review of this case, interviewing witnesses, examining video footage,

and analyzing all available evidence," Shapiro said in a statement. "We applied the facts to Pennsylvania law, and

accordingly, no criminal charges against Richard Nicoletti will be filed by my office." 

Shapiro's decision does not completely spare Nicoletti, who was placed on desk duty pending the investigation's

outcome. The Police Department on Tuesday released a statement indicating that it has an ongoing investigation

into the shooting. 

"There remain phases of the Police Department's internal review process that have not yet been completed," the

statement read. "We will provide additional comment as those phases move toward completion." 

The District Attorney's Office declined to comment. 

Dennis was a father of three children - ages 7, 11, and 17 - and had recently become engaged to be married. His

family had demanded that the officer involved in the shooting be fired and criminally charged. The family could not

be reached for comment Tuesday. Its lawyer, Lee Merritt, said Shapiro did not do enough. 

"The AG has a responsibility to complete an investigation and impanel a grand jury. My biggest concern is that he

didn't do that," he said. 

route. 

The shooting happened shortly before 4:15 p.m. Officers preparing to search Dennis' home spotted him driving a

Toyota Camry on nearby Hegerman Street. Two unmarked cars moved to sandwich the Camry, blocking Dennis'

In a surveillance video released Tuesday by the Attorney General's Office, Dennis' car is seen ramming one of the

unmarked vehicles as five plainclothes officers rush toward the Camry with their service weapons drawn. Another

undercover officer runs toward the driver's side of the Camry with a long-handled hammer and shatters the

window, sending glass flying. 

In the video, Dennis attempts to turn his vehicle around. Nicoletti, in a gray T-shirt, approaches Dennis and shoots

at near-point-blank range. The Camry stops. The footage ends. Medics pronounced Dennis dead minutes later. 

Police Department policy forbids the discharge of shots into a moving vehicle. Protocols also prohibit shooting "to

subdue a fleeing individual who presents no immediate threat of death or serious physical injury to themselves or

another person." 

But Shapiro said violations of police procedures do not always rise to the level of criminal charges. 

"Whether the Philadelphia Police Department procedure was followed during this incident was not in the scope of

our investigation, and will be addressed by Commissioner Ross and the department," Shapiro said. 

Nicoletti could not be reached Tuesday. John McNesby, president of Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 5, said the

case had been "fairly and impartially reviewed." 

"It's unfortunate that someone lost their life that day, and we support Officer Nicoletti and other officers who were

out there on the scene that day," McNesby said in a statement. 

Ross did not respond to a request for comment. In August, he told an NBC10 reporter that "quite candidly, we have

some concerns about the shooting . . . some of the tactics that were used." 

Shapiro said he and senior investigators had met with the Dennis family several times, including Tuesday to inform

them of the decision not to prosecute. 

"Mr. Dennis' death leaves a family in mourning and children missing their father, and I am deeply saddened by that

loss," Shapiro said. "I know the outcome of this case is frustrating to some, and I understand the very real mistrust

that exists between our communities and law enforcement. I swore an oath to assess the findings of every

investigation and apply them to the law." 

Krasner in September charged a Philadelphia officer with murder in an on-duty shooting, the first time a city officer

was charged in an on-duty shooting in nearly two decades. In October, a judge downgraded that case to third-

degree murder. Officer Ryan Pownall was released on bail and is awaiting trial. 

samwood@phillynews.com 

215-854-2796 

Staff writer Chris Palmer contributed to this article. 

Credit: By Sam Wood STAFF WRITER 
 
 


 
PHILADELPHIA, Pa., Aug. 22 -- The office of the Philadelphia Mayor issued the following press release: 

Mayor Kenney released the following statement on the fatal police-involved shooting that occurred on Monday

afternoon. 

"My prayers are with the family and friends of Jeffrey Dennis. It is always tragic to lose someone you love. I am

relieved there were no life threatening injuries to the police officers. The public should be assured that the Officer

Involved Shooting Investigation Unit is conducting a full investigation for the sake of Mr. Dennis, his family, the

officers, and for Philadelphia." For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please

Publication title:

US Fed News Service, Including US State News; Washington, D.C.

contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com 
 
 

Philadelphia officer won't face charges in fatal - Associated Press State
Wire: Pennsylvania (PA) - December 5, 2018
December 5, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA)

PHILADELPHIA (AP) — A Philadelphia police officer won't face charges in the fatal shooting of an
unarmed motorist this summer.

Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro made the announcement T uesday.

Richard Nicoletti, a 29-year veteran of the Philadelphia police force, fired the shots that killed 36-
year-old Jef f rey Dennis

Jef f rey Dennis  on Aug. 20.

He was shot when officers involved in a drug investigation used three unmarked cars to block
Dennis' car in place as he drove by, boxing him in. T he officers said they exited the cars,
approached Dennis and ordered him to shut the engine off.

T he officers said Dennis began using his car to strike the unmarked police vehicles and after an
officer broke his window, Dennis maneuvered the car and struck one of the officers. Dennis was
then shot in the head and shoulder.

T hree officers were injured in the incident.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
Relatives of a man shot and killed by undercover police in Tacony this week met with Police Commissioner Richard

Ross on Thursday to express their concerns about the incident, according to a lawyer for the family. 

The head of the police union, meanwhile, issued a letter asking for people "to hold judgment until all facts are

known," adding: "It's unfortunate that city leaders and others are prematurely second-guessing the tactics of police

officers during a volatile and chaotic situation that [led] to the death of an alleged drug suspect." 

The developments marked the latest fallout from Monday's shooting, in which a plainclothes officer - identified by

the Police Department late Thursday as Richard Nicoletti, a 29-year veteran assigned to the Narcotics Field Unit -

fatally shot 36-year-old Jeffrey Dennis. 

Police have said Dennis drove his Toyota Camry into another officer as police confronted him while preparing to

execute a search warrant for narcotics at his house, on the 7100 block of Cottage Street. 

Three officers were injured during the incident, according to police. Dennis was shot in the head and left arm and

declared dead at the scene at 4:18 p.m. 

to mourn Dennis' death. 

Wednesday night, hundreds of people gathered at the site of the shooting, on the 7100 block of Hegerman Street,

Lee Merritt, a lawyer for Dennis' relatives, said Thursday that family members met with Ross to ask for a

transparent investigation and to detail their concerns. Merritt said that family members hope to be allowed to

review surveillance video of the shooting and that they want the officers involved to be fired and criminally

charged. 

guilty." 

The Police Department's officer-involved-shooting unit is investigating and the state Attorney General's Office will

determine whether criminal charges are warranted. 

The Philadelphia District Attorney's Office referred the case to the attorney general because top prosecutor Larry

Krasner, formerly a defense attorney, had previously represented Dennis, according to spokesperson Ben Waxman. 

Ross told a reporter for NBC10 this week that "quite candidly we have some concerns about the shooting too,

some of the tactics that were used." Mayor Kenney also issued a statement saying in part: "My prayers are with the

family and friends of Jeffrey Dennis. It is always tragic to lose someone you love. I am relieved there were no life

threatening injuries to the police officers." 

The letter from the head of the police union, John McNesby, which was released Thursday, said: "Officers are

entitled to due process of law like every other citizen. And our officers are also presumed innocent until proven

Merritt said that Dennis had three children, ages 6, 11, and 17, and that he had recently gotten engaged. 

According to police, undercover officers with the Narcotics Field Unit were conducting surveillance on Dennis'

house and were preparing to execute a search warrant there when they saw him driving the Camry. 

Six officers in three unmarked police vehicles followed him and then tried to block him with their cars on

Hegerman. Dennis attempted to flee from the makeshift barricade, police said, but his car struck several vehicles,

and after an officer shattered the driver's door window, he drove into an officer. 

At that point, police said, Nicoletti fired three shots at Dennis. He has been put on desk duty pending the

investigation into the shooting. 

Publication title:

Philadelphia Inquirer; Philadelphia, Pa.

CPalmer@phillynews.com 

215-854-2817 @cs_palmer 

Credit: By Chris Palmer STAFF WRITER 
 
 


 
An undercover Philadelphia officer will not face criminal charges in the fatal shooting of a Tacony man during a

police investigation in August, state Attorney General Josh Shapiro announced Tuesday. 

The action clears Officer Richard Nicoletti, a 29-year veteran assigned to the Narcotics Field Unit, from prosecution

in the death of Jeffrey Dennis, 36, who was killed on Aug. 20 while officers were preparing to raid his home on the

7100 block of Cottage Street. 

Shapiro launched an investigation into the shooting after the case was handed off by Philadelphia District Attorney

Larry Krasner due to a potential conflict of interest. Krasner, formerly a defense attorney, once represented Dennis. 

"My office conducted a thorough four-month review of this case, interviewing witnesses, examining video footage,

and analyzing all available evidence," Shapiro said in a statement. "We applied the facts to Pennsylvania law, and

accordingly, no criminal charges against Richard Nicoletti will be filed by my office." 

Shapiro's decision does not completely spare Nicoletti, who was placed on desk duty pending the investigation's

outcome. The Police Department on Tuesday released a statement indicating that it has an ongoing investigation

into the shooting. 

"There remain phases of the Police Department's internal review process that have not yet been completed," the

statement read. "We will provide additional comment as those phases move toward completion." 

The District Attorney's Office declined to comment. 

Dennis was a father of three children 2018-- ages 7, 11, and 17 -- and had recently become engaged to be married.

His family had demanded that the officer involved in the shooting be fired and criminally charged. The family could

not be reached for comment Tuesday. Its lawyer, Lee Merritt, said Shapiro did not do enough. 

"The AG has a responsibility to complete an investigation and empanel a grand jury. My biggest concern is that he

didn't do that," he said. 

route. 

The shooting happened shortly before 4:15 p.m. Officers preparing to search Dennis' home spotted him driving a

Toyota Camry on nearby Hegerman Street. Two unmarked cars moved to sandwich the Camry, blocking Dennis'

In a surveillance video released Tuesday by the Attorney General's Office, Dennis' car is seen ramming one of the

unmarked vehicles as five plainclothes officers rush toward the Camry with their service weapons drawn. Another

undercover officer runs toward the driver's side of the Camry with a long-handled hammer and shatters the

window, sending glass flying. 

In the video, Dennis attempts to turn his vehicle around. Nicoletti, in a gray T-shirt, approaches Dennis and shoots

at near-point-blank range. The Camry stops. The footage ends. Medics pronounced Dennis dead minutes later. 

Police Department policy forbids the discharge of shots into a moving vehicle. Protocols also prohibit shooting "to

subdue a fleeing individual who presents no immediate threat of death or serious physical injury to themselves or

another person." 

But Shapiro said violations of police procedures do not always rise to the level of criminal charges. 

"Whether the Philadelphia Police Department procedure was followed during this incident was not in the scope of

our investigation, and will be addressed by Commissioner Ross and the department," Shapiro said. 

Nicoletti could not be reached Tuesday. John McNesby, president of Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 5, said the

case had been "fairly and impartially reviewed." 

"It's unfortunate that someone lost their life that day, and we support Officer Nicoletti and other officers who were

out there on the scene that day," McNesby said in a statement. 

Ross did not respond to a request for comment. In August, he told an NBC10 reporter that "quite candidly, we have

some concerns about the shooting 

 

some of the tactics that were used." 

them of the decision not to prosecute. 

Shapiro said he and senior investigators had met with the Dennis family several times, including Tuesday to inform

"Mr. Dennis' death leaves a family in mourning and children missing their father, and I am deeply saddened by that

loss," Shapiro said. "I know the outcome of this case is frustrating to some, and I understand the very real mistrust

that exists between our communities and law enforcement. I swore an oath to assess the findings of every

investigation and apply them to the law." 

Krasner in September charged a Philadelphia officer with murder in an on-duty shooting, the first time a city officer

was charged in an on-duty shooting in nearly two decades. In October, a judge downgraded that case to third-

degree murder. Officer Ryan Pownall was released on bail and is awaiting trial. 

Staff writer Chris Palmer contributed to this article. 

CREDIT: By Sam Wood 
 
 


Florida deputies fatally shoot armed psychiatric - Associated Press
State Wire: Florida (FL) - December 3, 2018
December 3, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Florida (FL)

T AMARAC, Fla. (AP) — Deputies fatally shot a psychiatric patient who they say was threatening to
harm people with a sharp piece of glass at a South Florida behavioral health center.

News outlets report the shooting happened late Saturday at the University Hospital center in
T amarac, which is near Fort Lauderdale.

Jarvis
Broward Sheriff's spokeswoman Veda Coleman-Wright says a deputy shot 30-year-old Jarvis
Randall
Randall with a bean bag, which failed to subdue him. When Randall then charged at the deputies,
three of them opened fire. Randall was taken by sheriff's helicopter to Broward General Hospital
where he died.

Coleman-Wright says the behavioral center's staff told deputies Randall was threatening to harm
others and described him as violent.

Randall was serving a five-year mental health probation for burglary charges.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Officials: Deputies shoot and kill psychiatric - Sun Sentinel (Fort
Lauderdale, FL) - December 3, 2018 - page 6
December 3, 2018 | Sun Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, FL) | Tonya Alanez | Page 6

T he psychiatric patient was in a violent, threatening mood, armed with a sharp piece of glass in the
moments before three deputies took aim, fired and killed him at the hospital, authorities said.

Jarvis Randall died a little before midnight Saturday. He had been a patient at University Hospital
Jarvis Randall
and Medical Center's behavioral health center in T amarac.

T he 30-year-old convicted felon was on mental-health probation for burglary charges dating back
a decade. When a Broward Circuit Court judge signed Randall's probation order on Feb. 27, he
designated Randall as a "violent offender of special concern," records show.

In handwriting, however, Judge Ernest Kollra noted Randall "DOES NOT  pose a danger," court
documents show.

Randall's five-year probation sentence was scheduled to expire in 2023.

It was not immediately clear how and when Randall checked into the 60-bed psychiatric hospital at
74425 N. University Drive. Staff there summoned Broward Sheriff's deputies about 10:30 p.m.
Saturday.

"T hey described him as violent and said he was threatening to harm other people with a weapon,"
said Veda Coleman-Wright, a spokeswoman for the Broward Sheriff's Office. "Investigators said
he was armed with an edged-glass weapon."

Efforts to calm Randall were unsuccessful, she said. One deputy shot him with a bean bag but that
failed to subdue him. Randall instead charged at the deputies. Three of them pulled their triggers,
Coleman-Wright said.

Rescuers flew Randall in a sheriff's helicopter to Broward Health North in Deerfield Beach. He died
shortly before midnight, Coleman-Wright said. T he three deputies are on restricted duty while the
Florida Department of Law Enforcement investigates.

Records show Randall was born in Fort Lauderdale and had an address in Margate. He had been
allowed to transfer his probation to Gwinnett County, Ga., court records show.

Efforts to reach relatives on Sunday evening were unsuccessful.

Randall's legal troubles began in September 2007 when he was arrested by the Broward Sheriff's
Office and charged with more than two dozen burglary and grand theft charges.

He pleaded no contest and was sent to a state prison to serve a 10-year sentence. He was
released in August 2016 with five years of probation to serve, according to the state Department
of Corrections.

Within five months, Randall violated his probation by smoking marijuana and refusing to submit to
a urinalysis, court documents show.

It was when Randall went to court in Fort Lauderdale to admit to his violation on Feb. 27 that the
judge put him on another five years of probation. It was set to expire Feb. 26, 2023.

tealanez@sun-sentinel .com, 954-356-4542 or T witter @talanez

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Sun Sentinel Company. All rights reserved.

 
Sheriff IDs 3 deputies who fatally shot psych - Sun Sentinel (Fort
Lauderdale, FL) - December 8, 2018 - page 1
December 8, 2018 | Sun Sentinel (Fort Lauderdale, FL) | Tonya Alanez | Page 1

T he three Broward sheriff's deputies who took aim, fired at and killed a patient at a T amarac
psychiatric hospital were named on T hursday, five days after the fatal shooting.

Authorities were called to University Hospital and Medical Center's behavioral health unit about
10:30 p.m. Saturday to help subdue a violent, threatening patient who was armed with a sharp
piece of glass, according to the sheriff's office.

Jarvis Randall were unsuccessful. One deputy shot the 30-year-old with a bean

Efforts to calm Jarvis Randall
bag but that failed to subdue him. Randall instead charged at the deputies, a spokeswoman for the
agency said.

T hat's when three deputies pulled their triggers and took down Randall. He died a little before
midnight Saturday.

T he shooters were Sgt. Christian Silva, 36, Deputy Robert O'Dor, 47, and Deputy Mitchell
Machado, 23, said Veda Coleman-Wright, the spokeswoman.

T he three deputies are on restricted duty while the Florida Department of Law Enforcement
investigates the fatal shooting.

Silva has been with the department for 14 years. O'Dor and Machado were hired in 2016, records
show.

tealanez@sun-sentinel.com, 954-356-4542 or T witter @talanez

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Sun Sentinel Company. All rights reserved.

 
BSO: Deputies fatally shoot man armed with ‘ - Miami Herald, The (FL) -
December 2, 2018
December 2, 2018 | Miami Herald, The (FL) | Carli Teproff, Miami Herald

Broward Sheriff's Office deputies shot and killed a man late Saturday night after the man — who
was at a T amarac behavioral health facility — armed himself with glass and charged at deputies,
the department said Sunday.

T he fatal deputy-involved shooting happened at 10:30 p.m. Saturday at University Hospital and
Medical Center Behavioral Health Pavilion, 7425 N. University Dr.

Jarvis Randall, 30, was taken to Broward Health North where he died just before midnight.
Jarvis Randall

According to BSO, staff of the hospital called for help for a patient, saying he was "violent and said
he was threatening to harm other people with a weapon."

"Investigators said he was armed with an edged-glass weapon," BSO said in a news release. "When
deputies arrived at the facility ... they encountered Jarvis Randall
aggressive threatening behavior."

Jarvis Randall who was demonstrating

Efforts to calm him down — including using a non-lethal bean-bag service weapon — did not work,
BSO said.

T hree deputies then opened fire, according to BSO.

T he three deputies, who have not been identified, have been placed on restricted duty pending
investigation by the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, which is standard procedure.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Miami Herald

 
3 Florida Cops Kill Black Mental Patient Who Only - Chicago Defender
(IL) - December 3, 2018
December 3, 2018 | Chicago Defender (IL) | NewsOne Staff

An investigation is underway in the police-involved killing of an African-American psychiatric patient
on Saturday who was reportedly armed with a piece of glass.

It's unclear if the officers failed to use de-escalation procedures to avoid a fatal outcome.

See Also: Why Can't Cops Recognize A Gun? Another Unarmed Black Man Is Killed

T he Sun-Sentinel identified the man as Jarvis Randall
Medical Center's behavioral health center in T amarac, Florida. Staff members called the Broward
County Sheriff's Office about him on Saturday night.

Jarvis Randall, a patient at the University Hospital and

Randal, a felon who was on mental-health probation for burglary charges, became violent and
made threats, according to a sheriff's office spokeswoman.

"Investigators said he was armed with an edged-glass weapon," said Veda Coleman-Wright, adding
that efforts to calm Randall failed.

One of the officers shot at Randall with a beanbag, but instead of stopping him, it caused Randall
to charge at the deputies. T hat prompted the three officers to shoot him.

Randall is the latest in a long list of mentally ill African-American men killed by police. T he list
includes Alfred Olango, who pointed a vaping device at officers when cops shot and killed him in
2016.

And in April 2018, four officers — one in uniform, three in plainclothes — killed Saheed Vassell, 34,
in a hail of 10 bullets on a Brooklyn sidewalk. T he officers responded to calls about a Black man
with a gun. But it turned out that Vassell, who suffered from bipolar disorder, was holding a pipe.
No firearm was found at the scene.

Unlike Olango and Vassell, the police knew that Randell, 30, was mentally ill during their encounter.

T he three deputies are on restricted duty while the Florida Department of Law Enforcement
investigates.

SEE ALSO:

Meet Tammy Kemp, T he Black Judge Assigned T o Amber Guyger Murder T rial For Killing Botham
Jean

Marc Lamont Hill Apologizes For Comments About Israel-Palestine Conflict

[ione_media_gallery src="https://newsone.com" id="3838695" overlay="true"]

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Chicag o Defender

 

 
An investigation is underway in the police-involved killing of an African-American psychiatric patient on Saturday

who was reportedly armed with a piece of glass. 

It's unclear if the officers failed to use de-escalation procedures to avoid a fatal outcome. 

The Sun-Sentinel identified the man as Jarvis Randall, a patient at the University Hospital and Medical Center's

behavioral health center in Tamarac, Florida. Staff members called the Broward County Sheriff's Office about him

Randal, a felon who was on mental-health probation for burglary, became violent and made threats, according to

on Saturday night. 

the sheriff's office . 

One of the officers shot at Randall with a beanbag, but instead of stopping him, it caused Randall to charge at the

deputies. That prompted the three officers to shoot him. He was armed with a piece of glass. 

The three deputies are on restricted duty while the Florida Department of Law Enforcement investigates. 
 
 



Officer shot, 1 suspect dead near Georgia Walmart - Associated Press
State Wire: Georgia (GA) - September 3, 2018
September 3, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Georgia (GA)

AT LANT A (AP) — Authorities say a police officer has been shot by a shoplifting suspect near a
Walmart store in Georgia.

T he Georgia Bureau of Investigation said in a statement that 34-year-old Covington Officer Matt
Cooper is in serious condition following the Monday afternoon shooting.

Police say officers were responding to the report of a shoplifting, when the suspects ran away and
fired, hitting Cooper.

T wenty-one-year-old suspect Aaron Demonta Fleming
Authorities say the gunshot was likely self-inflicted. Two other suspects are in police custody.

Aaron Demonta Fleming  was shot and killed at the scene.

T he incident happened at about 1 p.m. Monday. Covington is about 35 miles (56 kilometers)
southeast of Atlanta.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

Officer Matt Cooper improving slowly - Walton Tribune, The (Monroe,
GA) - September 9, 2018
September 9, 2018 | Walton Tribune, The (Monroe, GA) | David Clemons | Walton Tribune

Covington police Officer Matt Cooper is slowly recovering nearly a week after being shot in the line
of duty.

In a Facebook post Sunday afternoon, the Covington Police Department said Cooper remains at
Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta "and is slowly improving."

"T he doctors are pleased with his progress," the post said. "He still has a long way to go, but
prayers are being answered. Please continue to pray for Officer Cooper!"

Cooper, 34, was shot outside the Walmart at 10300 Industrial Blvd. NE on Monday afternoon when
he gave chase to a shoplifting suspect. T he Georgia Bureau of Investigation has said that suspect,
21-year-old Aaron Demonta Fleming

Aaron Demonta Fleming , shot at Cooper then shot himself fatally.

Cooper sustained a bullet to the carotid artery. He was flown to WellStar Atlanta Medical Center on
Monday afternoon, then transferred to Grady on T uesday.

Doctors performed surgery Wednesday to reduce swelling on Cooper's brain.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Walton Tribune

 
UPDATE: Suspect in police shooting likely died of - Rockdale Citizen,
The (Conyers, GA) - September 4, 2018
September 4, 2018 | Rockdale Citizen, The (Conyers, GA) | From Staff Reportsnews@rockdalecitizen.com

COVINGT ON — A Covington Police officer responding to a shoplifting call at the Walmart on
Industrial Boulevard was shot and seriously wounded Monday afternoon. T he suspect in the
shooting was killed. According to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, early indications are that the
suspect died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.Officer Matt Cooper, 34, a six-year veteran of the
department and a military veteran, was taken by air ambulance to Atlanta Medical Center where he
was remained in serious condition T uesday.According to Capt. Ken Malcom, officers responded to
a shoplifting call at 12:24 p.m. where three male suspects were encountered in the shopping
center parking lot. Two were apprehended, but a third fled across Industrial Boulevard and ran
behind the Little Phillies shopping center that is adjacent to a wooded area. Two officers pursued
him, with one going around the rear of the shopping center from the east and the other from the
west. Malcom said the officer approaching from the east side heard a gunshot and found his
fellow officer wounded and unconscious.T he body of the suspect, identified as Aaron Demonta
Aaron Demonta
Fleming , 21, was found in the wooded area a short time later. He was armed with a .38
Fleming
revolver.According to police, several gunshots were fired in the incident, but it was not clear if
either officer had fired his weapon.T he investigation has been turned over to the Georgia Bureau
of Investigation.Malcom said this is the first time an officer has been wounded in the line of duty
since he joined the force 33 years ago."Please pray for the police and pray for our officer who is
fighting for his life," said Malcom.T he names of the suspects have not been been released.
Malcom described all three as young males."T here is no such thing as a routine call," said Malcom.
"As officers we are trained to believe that."T he shootings shattered what was otherwise a quiet
Labor Day afternoon. T he stores in the shopping center where the shootings occurred were
closed, and Malcom said he did not believe the public had been placed at risk.A large contingent of
law enforcement officers gathered in the Walmart parking lot as the investigation continued. A
man driving through the area about two hours after the incident asked what happened."T his sort
of thing didn't use to happen around Covington," he said. "T his is crazy."Cooper joined the
Covington Police Department in 2012 and was named Rookie of the Year in 2013.Cooper was in
the Army for eight years and was his battalion's senior sniper with two deployments to both Iraq
and Afghanistan.When he returned home, he worked for two years as an emergency medical
technician with Newton Medical Center."When I came back, I just wanted to help people out,"
Cooper said in a 2013 interview.As a result of his work as an EMT , he got to know several
members of the Police Department, who suggested he join the force."I wanted to be in law
enforcement because I simply wanted to help people who were in need," Cooper said. "In EMT  and
the Police Academy, we were taught to be a servant of the public, and I try to be that."Law
enforcement is part of Cooper's heritage. Cooper's father retired from law enforcement with the
Georgia Department of Natural Resources and later worked with the Newton County Sheriff's
Office at the courthouse.Cooper said joining the Police Department was "an homage to his
(father's) service in law enforcement."T he Citizen will continue to update this story as more news
becomes available.

Copyrig ht 2018, Rockdale Citizen, All Rights Reserved.

 
Officer Cooper undergoes surgery to relieve - Newton Citizen, The (GA)
- September 6, 2018
September 6, 2018 | Newton Citizen, The (GA) | Alice Queen

COVINGT ON — T he Covington Police officer who was shot in the head Monday while pursuing a
shoplifting suspect had surgery Wednesday to relieve swelling and pressure on his brain.

An update on Officer Matt Cooper on the Covington Police Facebook page stated that the surgery
was a "proactive/precautionary measure," adding, "T he surgery went very well."

T he surgery was performed at Grady Memorial Hospital where Cooper was transferred T uesday
after he was initially transported by air ambulance to Atlanta Medical Center. Doctors have not yet
performed a surgery to remove the bullet, which is lodged next to Cooper's carotid artery.

Cooper, 34, was wounded shortly after noon on Monday after he and another officer were called
to the Walmart on Industrial Boulevard in response to a shoplifting incident.

T wo juvenile suspects were apprehended in the parking lot of the store, but a third, 21-year-old
Aaron Demonta Fleming
Aaron Demonta Fleming  of Conyers, fled across the street behind a shopping center. Cooper
and another officer pursued him, and Cooper was shot once in the head.

Fleming's body was found a short time later in nearby woods, dead of an apparent self-inflicted
gunshot wound. Fleming was on probation and there was a warrant out for his arrest for probation
violation.

A fundraiser for Cooper and his family is planned for tonight, starting at 5 p.m., on the Square in
Covington. In addition, proceeds from Saturday's annual Covington Police Fuzz Run will be
dedicated to him. T he Police Department is asking that anyone attending the 35th annual road
race wear blue to show their support for Cooper.

Copyrig ht 2018, Newtown Citizen, All Rights Reserved.

 
Officer 'fighting for his life' after being shot - Springfield News-Sun
(OH) - September 3, 2018
September 3, 2018 | Springfield News-Sun (OH) | WSBTV.com

COVINGT ON, Ga. —

A police officer was shot Monday afternoon at a Walmart in Covington, Georgia.

Police confirmed the incident happened around 1 p.m. as officers responded to a shoplifting call.

> Read more trending news

When they arrived, officers said three suspects ran behind the store and started firing at the
officer, who was hit at least once, WSB-T V reported

2 PM UPDAT E FROM COVINGT ON PD:

- Covington cop has been flown to Atlanta Medical Center; his condition unknown

-T wo suspects in custody; a third suspect is dead

-Officer was responding to a shoplifting call at Walmart. Three suspects ran behind the store and
started shooting

— Michael Seiden (@SeidenWSBT V) September 3, 2018

Update 6:53 p.m. EDT  Sept. 3: Covington police say one of their officers is fighting for his life after
being shot by a shoplifting suspect near a Walmart.

Investigators said they were called out to the store along Industrial Boulevard just before 12:30
p.m. Monday for a shoplifting call. T he Georgia Bureau of Investigation said three men were
attempting to steal bandanas.

Officers arrested two suspects but a third, identified as Aaron Fleming

Aaron Fleming , 21, ran.

Aaron
Just In: GBI confirms the man killed after allegedly shooting a Covington Police officer is Aaron
Fleming , 21. https://t.co/YUmiaA2Li8 pic.twitter.com/HMaaVxEvwN
Fleming

— Matt Johnson (@MattWSB) September 3, 2018

A Covington police sergeant and Officer Matt Cooper chased Fleming across the street and behind
another shopping center.

As the sergeant turned the corner, he said he saw Fleming shoot Cooper and then take off into the
woods behind the store.

Police said that sergeant later heard a single gunshot inside the woods, went to investigate and
found Fleming dead from a gunshot wound. T he Georgia Bureau of Investigation said the gunshot
was likely self-inflicted.

A helicopter flew Cooper to Atlanta Medical Center, where he's listed in serious condition.

"It's very heavy on all of our hearts. We're praying just like we're going to ask everyone out (there)
who's viewing this, please pray for our officer, please pray for his health and that he can pull
through OK," said Capt. Ken Malcom, of the Covington Police Department.

Malcom told Channel 2 investigative reporter Aaron Diamant this is the first time a police officer
has been shot in Covington during his 33 years with the department.

A witness said that Cooper was shot in the head. Malcom would not confirm those details but said
Cooper is in stable but serious condition.

Cooper, 34, is a father of two and a military veteran, who has spent six years with the department.

T he department says his family is by his side at the hospital.

"T his is something we all pray every day will never happen, but here we are," Malcom said.

T he GBI is leading the investigation into the shooting.

Original story: T he injured officer was flown to Atlanta Medical Center. T he officer was shot in the
head, authorities confirmed to WSB-T V. Covington Police Capt. Ken Malcom said Monday
afternoon that the officer is stable.

Update: Covington Police confirm officer involved in shootout outside Walmart was shot in the
head. Waiting for update on his condition. One suspect dead. Two others in custody. @wsbtv
pic.twitter.com/8g1OgbsaaO

— Aaron Diamant (@AaronDiamantWSB) September 3, 2018

One of the suspects was also shot and died in the parking lot.

T he other two suspects are in custody.

T his is a developing story. Check back with WSBT V.com for updates.

(c) 2018 Cox Newspapers, Inc. - Spring field News-Sun

 
Wounded Covington Police officer described as ‘ - Newton Citizen, The
(GA) - September 4, 2018
September 4, 2018 | Newton Citizen, The (GA) | Alice Queen

COVINGT ON — Covington Police Officer Matt Cooper, who was shot in the line of duty Monday,
was transferred to Grady Memorial Hospital Tuesday for further evaluation as doctors prepare for
surgery to remove a bullet lodged next to his carotid artery.

Covington Police Chief Stacey Cotton spoke to the media Tuesday afternoon, describing Cooper
as a "survivor" and a "fighter." Cotton said Cooper not only has excellent tactical skills as an officer
but also has the heart of a protector.

Cotton said the outpouring of support for Cooper and the Police Department — from both the
local community and farther afield — has been tremendous.

"T he community support and outreach for this officer and this department show me that the
public loves and cares for law enforcement," said Cotton. "T hat they know it's a tough job, and
we're not always treated fairly. A man got up to go to work that day. T he only thing he did was go
to work … and he was seriously, critically injured for doing his job. We don't do this for the
paycheck; we do it because we love it, and many of us feel like we are protectors. Matt Cooper is
one of those protectors. Not only does he defend this community every day, he defended his
country overseas."

Although Cooper remained in serious condition T uesday, he was able to tell his wife that he loves
her, Cotton said. T he officer's family is "tired but holding up well," he added.

Cooper, 34, and another officer responded to a shoplifting call at the Walmart on Industrial
Boulevard Monday at about 12:24 p.m. where three male suspects were encountered in the
shopping center parking lot. T he three were reportedly attempting to steal bandannas.

According to Capt. Ken Malcom, the two younger suspects were apprehended, but a third fled
across Industrial Boulevard and ran behind the Little Phillies shopping center that is adjacent to a
wooded area. Cooper and the other officer pursued him, with one going around the rear of the
shopping center from the east and the other from the west. Malcom said the officer approaching
from the east side heard a gunshot and found Cooper wounded and unconscious.

T he suspect's body was found a short time later in the wooded area. T he Georgia Bureau of
Investigation said preliminary findings indicate Aaron Demonta Fleming
Aaron Demonta Fleming , 21, died of a self-
inflicted gunshot wound. He was armed with a .38 revolver, according to police.

T he other two suspects have not been identified by police due to their status as juveniles.

Cooper, a six-year veteran of the department and a military veteran, was taken by air ambulance

to Atlanta Medical Center.

According to police, several gunshots were fired in the incident, but it was not clear if either officer
had fired his weapon.

T he investigation has been turned over to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation.

Cotton said this is the first time an officer has been wounded in the line of duty during his tenure.

"I've been chief almost 21 years and almost 32 years of service, and I really hoped I would get
through it without having to face something like this," said Cotton. "It's been challenging. Nothing
you do in your career prepares you for this, other than I think trusting in and watching and seeing
the fine men and women who wear the Covington Police badge and how they do the things they
do has made my job a whole lot easier because I knew they knew what they were doing."

Cotton also praised the work of the public safety agencies that worked the incident Monday — the
Covington Fire Department, Newton EMS and Covington-Newton County 911.

"All of those entities worked together under trying conditions," Cotton said, noting that at the time
the gunman was still at large. "T hey were able to do their duty, be safe and do their best to save
Matt's life, and they worked like a well-oiled machine. T he community should be proud of the high
level of public safety service that was provided."

Cooper joined the Covington Police Department in 2012 and was named Rookie of the Year in
2013.

Cooper was in the Army for eight years and was his battalion's senior sniper with two deployments
to both Iraq and Afghanistan.

When he returned home, he worked for two years as an emergency medical technician with
Newton Medical Center.

"When I came back, I just wanted to help people out," Cooper said in a 2013 interview with the
Citizen.

As a result of his work as an EMT , he got to know several members of the Police Department, who
suggested he join the force.

"I wanted to be in law enforcement because I simply wanted to help people who were in need,"
Cooper said. "In EMT  and the Police Academy, we were taught to be a servant of the public, and I
try to be that."

Law enforcement is part of Cooper's heritage. Cooper's father retired from law enforcement with
the Georgia Department of Natural Resources and later worked with the Newton County Sheriff's
Office at the courthouse.

Cooper said joining the Police Department was "an homage to his (father's) service in law

enforcement."

Cotton said there will be a special recognition of Cooper at Saturday's 35th annual Covington Fuzz
Run.

Anyone who would like to make a contribution to support the Cooper family may make a donation
to the Covington Police Who Care fund. Donations may be made at Newton Federal Bank or at the
Police Department at 1143 Oak St., Covington.

Copyrig ht 2018, Newtown Citizen, All Rights Reserved.

 
AJC TOP LOCAL STORY OFFICER SHOT - Covington - Atlanta Journal-
Constitution, The (GA) - September 4, 2018 - page B1
September 4, 2018 | Atlanta Journal-Constitution, The (GA) | Steve Burns and Bo EmersonStaff | Page B1

A Covington officer was battling for his life Monday night after he was shot by a shoplifting suspect
outside a Walmart.

T he injured officer was identified as Matt Cooper, 34, a six year veteran of the police force,
according to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation.

Cooper was summoned to the Walmart along Industrial Boulevard in Covington shortly before
12:30 p.m.

T here, Cooper encountered Aaron Demonta Fleming
across the street and behind another shopping center with Cooper in pursuit.

Aaron Demonta Fleming . A foot chase ensued. Fleming, 21, ran

Several shots were fired. Cooper was struck and airlifted to Atlanta Medical Center.

Fleming sustained a fatal gunshot wound.

T he GBI said early information indicates Fleming's gunshot wound was self inflicted.

WSB-T V reported that the officer had been shot in the head. T he GBI said Cooper was in serious
condition.

"T his is something we all pray every day will never happen, but here we are," Capt. Ken Mal-com
said.

"It is very heavy on all our hearts. Please pray for our officer."

T wo other suspects are in custody. T he GBI is investigating the officer-involved shooting.

Covington is about 35 miles east of Atlanta and is the county seat of Newton County

Copyrig ht 2018 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

 
Shooting suspect had record in Rockdale County - Newton Citizen, The
(GA) - September 4, 2018
September 4, 2018 | Newton Citizen, The (GA) | Larry Stanford

Aaron Demonta Fleming , 21, of Conyers, is alleged to have shot Covington

COVINGT ON - Aaron Demonta Fleming
Police Officer Matt Cooper Monday afternoon and then turned the gun on himself. A check of his
criminal history found Fleming wanted on a probation violation warrant in Rockdale County.

While there are no reports that Fleming was ever arrested or charged with a crime in Newton
County, he had a criminal history in Rockdale County from 2014-2016. In 2014, when he was just
17, Fleming was charged with robbery by sudden snatch. In 2015, at age 18, he was charged with
battery, false imprisonment and statutory rape. And in 2016, then 19-year-old Fleming was
charged with making false statements.

T he Citizen made an Open Records Request for Fleming's criminal history to Rockdale County
District Attorney Alisha Johnson and received the following information concerning his arrests:

A warrant for the offense of robbery by sudden snatch was taken against Fleming with an offense
date of Sept. 30, 2014. He was ultimately arrested on this warrant on Dec. 22, 2014 and the case
was dismissed for insufficient evidence to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt on April 9, 2015.

Fleming was arrested on Oct. 31, 2015 on warrants for misdemeanor battery, misdemeanor
simple assault and felony false imprisonment. T he offense date for the case involving these
warrants was Oct. 7, 2015.

Fleming was also arrested on Oct. 31 for outstanding warrants for a previously committed
misdemeanor statutory rape and misdemeanor enticing a child for indecent purposes. T he offense
date for these offenses was Sept. 15, 2015.

Based on the facts of the case, the State dismissed the felony false imprisonment for insufficient
evidence to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt and Fleming was formally charged in State
Court with misdemeanor battery and misdemeanor simple assault (Accusation No. 2016-SR-1659).
Fleming was also formally charged in State Court with misdemeanor statutory rape and
misdemeanor enticing a child for indecent purposes (Accusation No. 2016-SR-1660).

Fleming entered guilty pleas in both cases on May 27, 2016. In 2016-SR-1659 he received a
sentence of 12 months on probation with credit for the 120 days he served in jail along with the
special condition of probation to have no contact with the victims in the case.

In 2016-SR-1660, he received a sentence of 24 months on probation to run consecutive to the
sentence in 2016-CR-1659 with the added condition of a mental health/drug assessment by
Behavioral Health Treatment Court Collaborative (BHT CC) and any treatment recommended as a
result of that assessment .

On Sept. 24, 2016 Fleming was arrested on the charge of false statements. T he case was
dismissed on Oct. 14, 2016 for insufficient evidence to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.

On March 13, 2017, a warrant for probation violation was taken out against Fleming in Rockdale
County after he missed appointments with his probation officer in January and February.

Copyrig ht 2018, Newtown Citizen, All Rights Reserved.

 
Wounded police officer returns home after months - Associated Press
State Wire: Georgia (GA) - December 20, 2018
December 20, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Georgia (GA)

COVINGT ON, Ga. (AP) — A police officer in Georgia who was shot in the head has returned home
after months of physical rehabilitation.

News outlets report Covington police Officer Matt Cooper finished his inpatient brain injury rehab
program Wednesday and got to go home.

Police say officers responded to a report of shoplifting at an area Walmart in September and three
suspects fled, shooting at officers.

Aaron Demonta Fleming ,
Authorities say Cooper was shot in the head by 21-year-old suspect Aaron Demonta Fleming
who was shot and killed at the scene. Authorities have said Fleming's gunshot wound was likely
self-inflicted. T he other suspects were taken into custody.

T he Georgia Bureau of Investigation said then that Cooper was hospitalized in serious condition.
He underwent several surgeries and was later transferred to the rehabilitation center.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Georgia officer shot in head back on respirator as - Springfield News-
Sun (OH) - September 12, 2018
September 12, 2018 | Springfield News-Sun (OH) | WSBTV.com

COVINGT ON, Ga. —

A police officer shot in the head by a shoplifting suspect is making progress.

T he Covington Police Department said Wednesday morning that officer Matt Cooper, 34, was off
a respirator for a few days and did well, but has now been placed back on the respirator as a
precaution.

> Read more trending news

"Officer Cooper had another restful day yesterday. He was off of the respirator for a few days and
did well but has now been placed back on the respirator as a precaution," T he Covington Police
Department said in a Facebook post. "He's responding to questions by the squeeze of a hand and
even waved to his nurse as she left the room!

"Matt is continuing to fight and his progress, though slow, is impressive. Officer Cooper still has a
very long way to go so please continue your positive thoughts and prayers. Matt's condition
remains serious . Please continue praying for the Cooper family. We will post updates when they
are made available to us."

Related: Who is Matt Cooper? Officer shot in head responding to shoplifting incident

Police said Aaron Fleming
on Sept. 3.

Aaron Fleming  shot Cooper then killed himself after a shoplifting call near a Walmart

Cooper remains in ICU at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta.

"T he family is encouraged," Capt. Ken Malcolm said. "T he doctors are encouraged every day with
his progress. Just please continue to remember him every day."

Police say Cooper's recovery could take months.

(c) 2018 Cox Newspapers, Inc. - Spring field News-Sun

 
Police release details of events that lead to - Walton Tribune, The
(Monroe, GA) - September 4, 2018
September 4, 2018 | Walton Tribune, The (Monroe, GA) | David Clemons | Walton Tribune

Covington police said two juvenile suspects and an adult man hid items in a large backpack Monday
and left a Walmart in the shoplifting incident that led to an officer being shot.

Officer Matt Cooper and Sgt. Allan Seebaran chased one of the men, who shot at Cooper, striking
him in the head.

Cooper, 34, remained in an Atlanta hospital Tuesday in serious condition.

T he Covington Police Department released the incident report T uesday.

At about 12:24 p.m., Officer Stacy Cosby was dispatched to Walmart at 10300 Industrial Blvd. NE
to a call of a shoplifting in progress.

T he caller said three people — two juvenile suspects and one large adult man — were seen
concealing items in a large backpack-type bag. T he caller said the three suspects passed all points
of sale and she kept an eye on them as they went to the parking lot.

Cosby reported confronting one of the juvenile suspects in the parking lot and said the child
admitted taking items. Cosby took the child, 14 years old, into custody and returned him to meet
with the store's loss prevention officer.

A few minutes later, Cooper intercepted the other juvenile suspect and returned him to the store
employee. Soon, Seebaran reported being in a chase with the adult suspect.

Cooper was adjusting the handcuffs on one of the juvenile suspects when Seebaran's call came in,
and Cooper dropped his handcuff key in an effort to get to Seebaran's aid. Cosby stayed back with
the juvenile suspects already in custody.

After a few minutes, Seebaran called out "shots fired." Cosby left the juvenile suspects with the
store employee to assist.

Cosby reported arriving at the corner of Industrial Boulevard Northeast and Hazelbrand Road
Northeast, running up a hill behind two Newton County sheriff's deputies. Cosby held the
southwest corner of the building and the deputies ran toward its right side. Officer Brian Capps was
on the northwest side of the building with an AR-15 gun and yelled for Cosby to cover his back, a
position Cosby held until other officers advised the scene was safe.

Cosby later returned to the store to get the names and addresses of the juvenile subjects, and
their mothers' names. T he teens were turned over to Sgt. Chris Smith.

T he Georgia Bureau of Investigation was called in to investigate. It later identified the shooting
suspect as 21-year-old Aaron Demonta Fleming
believed to be a self-inflicted gunshot wound.

Aaron Demonta Fleming , of Conyers, and said Fleming died of what is

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Walton Tribune

 
Wounded Covington officer to undergo surgery to - Newton Citizen,
The (GA) - September 4, 2018
September 4, 2018 | Newton Citizen, The (GA) | Alice Queen

COVINGT ON — Doctors at Atlanta Medical Center will evaluate Covington Police Officer Matt
Cooper today in preparation for removing a bullet that is lodged in his head at his carotid artery.

T he Police Department issued a statement Tuesday morning thanking the thousands from around
the country who have expressed concern for the officer and his family after he was shot by a
shoplifting suspect Monday afternoon.

In the statement, Public Information Officer Justin Stott said "words cannot express how touched
we all are," adding that Cooper's vital signs are strong. "Matt Cooper is strong!" wrote Stott. "He is
a fighter! Please continue to pray for the Cooper family."

Cooper, 34, and another officer responded to a shoplifting call at the Walmart on Industrial
Boulevard Monday at about 12:24 p.m. where three male suspects were encountered in the
shopping center parking lot. According to Capt. Ken Malcom, two were apprehended, but a third
fled across Industrial Boulevard and ran behind the Little Phillies shopping center that is adjacent to
a wooded area. Cooper and the other officer pursued him, with one going around the rear of the
shopping center from the east and the other from the west. Malcom said the officer approaching
from the east side heard a gunshot and found Cooper wounded and unconscious.

T he suspect's body was found a short time later in the wooded area. T he Georgia Bureau of
Investigation said preliminary findings indicate Aaron Demonta Fleming
Aaron Demonta Fleming , 21, died of a self-
inflicted gunshot wound.He was armed with a .38 revolver, according to police.

Cooper, a six-year veteran of the department and a military veteran, was taken by air ambulance
to Atlanta Medical Center where he remained in serious condition T uesday.

According to police, several gunshots were fired in the incident, but it was not clear if either officer
had fired his weapon.

T he investigation has been turned over to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation.

Malcom said this is the first time an officer has been wounded in the line of duty since he joined the
force 33 years ago.

"Please pray for the police and pray for our officer who is fighting for his life," said Malcom.

T he shootings shattered what was otherwise a quiet Labor Day afternoon. T he stores in the
shopping center where the shootings occurred were closed, and Malcom said he did not believe
the public had been placed at risk.

"T here is no such thing as a routine call," said Malcom. "As officers we are trained to believe that."

A large contingent of law enforcement officers gathered in the Walmart parking lot as the
investigation continued. A man driving through the area about two hours after the incident asked
what happened.

"T his sort of thing didn't use to happen around Covington," he said. "T his is crazy."

Cooper joined the Covington Police Department in 2012 and was named Rookie of the Year in
2013.

Cooper was in the Army for eight years and was his battalion's senior sniper with two deployments
to both Iraq and Afghanistan.

When he returned home, he worked for two years as an emergency medical technician with
Newton Medical Center.

"When I came back, I just wanted to help people out," Cooper said in a 2013 interview with the
Citizen.

As a result of his work as an EMT , he got to know several members of the Police Department, who
suggested he join the force.

"I wanted to be in law enforcement because I simply wanted to help people who were in need,"
Cooper said. "In EMT  and the Police Academy, we were taught to be a servant of the public, and I
try to be that."

Law enforcement is part of Cooper's heritage. Cooper's father retired from law enforcement with
the Georgia Department of Natural Resources and later worked with the Newton County Sheriff's
Office at the courthouse.

Cooper said joining the Police Department was "an homage to his (father's) service in law
enforcement."

T he Citizen will continue to update this story as more news becomes available.

Copyrig ht 2018, Newtown Citizen, All Rights Reserved.

 
Citizens urged to pray for Covington officer - Newton Citizen, The (GA) -
September 5, 2018
September 5, 2018 | Newton Citizen, The (GA) | Larry Stanford

COVINGT ON - Calling Covington employees her family, City Manager Leigh Anne Knight stated
that when she got the call that Covington Police Officer Matt Cooper had been shot Monday, it
hurt deeply.

Knight, along with the City Council and mayor, expressed their feelings about Cooper and the
shooting incident on Sept. 3 during the council's meeting Tuesday night. Council member Susie
Keck was out of town.

Cooper, 34, and another officer responded to a shoplifting call at the Walmart on Industrial
Boulevard Monday at about 12:24 p.m. where three male suspects were encountered in the
shopping center parking lot. T he three were reportedly attempting to steal bandannas.

According to Capt. Ken Malcom, the two younger suspects were apprehended, but a third fled
across Industrial Boulevard and ran behind the Little Phillies shopping center that is adjacent to a
wooded area. Cooper and the other officer pursued him, with one going around the rear of the
shopping center from the east and the other from the west. Malcom said the officer approaching
from the east side heard a gunshot and found Cooper wounded and unconscious.

T he suspect's body was found a short time later in the wooded area. T he Georgia Bureau of
Investigation said preliminary findings indicate Aaron Demonta Fleming
Aaron Demonta Fleming , 21, died of a self-
inflicted gunshot wound. He was armed with a .38 revolver, according to police.

Cooper is currently in serious condition at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta with a bullet lodged
next to the carotid artery. Doctors are determining the best way to remove the bullet without
damaging the artery.

Knight said city employees feel like family members to each other, and that the shooting of
Cooper by a suspect following a foot chase hit her "family" hard.

"Yesterday was, for most of us, one of the hardest, if not the hardest days we have had to endure
as a city employee," she said. "A little bit of our joy is gone as we wrap our heads around how our
fellow employee is fighting for his life after trying to protect those in our community. We have
found ourselves pausing during the day to talk about Matt, pray for Matt and his family and our
first responders."

Knight went on to ask the community to do three things in the aftermath of what has happened.

"Most importantly, remember Matt and his family in your prayers," said Knight. "His condition is
critical and he has a tremendous battle in front of him. But Matt is a tough guy. He is an armed

forces veteran, a veteran police officer and we know he is fighting harder than ever right now.

"Remember all of our police officers and public safety personnel in your thoughts and prayers. It
should be evident now more than ever just how real the danger of their job is.

"Be thankful for the service of our officers and public safety employees," she continued. "T hey
patrol the streets at 3 a.m. while we are sleeping, putting in the work to keep Covington safe for
us. Obviously risking their lives every minute they are on their shift for us. We need to let them
know we realize their sacrifice and appreciate it.

"So please… take a minute next time you see an officer and introduce yourself and thank them for
laying their life on the line for you. T hen stop for a second and think about how fortunate we are to
have officers risk their lives for the safety of people they don't know. It is a privilege."

Michael Whatley watched Cooper growing up and said Cooper is one of his son's dear friends.
Whatley said the only thing he (Whatley) and others can do right now is pray.

"I do believe that prayer works," said Whatley… "T hat's all I can do, and I hope that if you think
there is nothing you can do, just sit back and say 'Well, I can pray.' If that's all you can do, that's
enough. Let's get this boy back on his feet."

Anthony Henderson, who works for the Newton County Sheriff's Office, said he doesn't know
Cooper personally, but he has seen him in the community. He added that as a member of law
enforcement, he understands the sacrifices first responders make and urged the community to
continue to pray and support Cooper and his family.

"T o his family, we're rooting for you," he said. "I know he is strong, I know he is a warrior; he has
done his part to serve our country and he does a great job in our community."

Kenneth Morgan noted that he was shopping in Walmart on Monday when the incident happened,
but did not know an officer had been shot until afterwards. He said it is unfortunate that it takes an
incident like this to bond a community together.

"T here is a lot of work that still has to be done, but I think this shows the leadership of our city and
the community togetherness, because we have bonded together as a city," said Morgan. "We
haven't made any reference or anything out of character; we have bonded together, the only thing
we know that we can do for our community."

Josh McKelvey said when he received the phone call about the shooting, it was like being punched in
his gut.

"My heart definitely goes out to his family and parents and to the community," he said. "We've
been in constant prayer since that happened. I was at my church this afternoon and I saw people
coming in and out of the sanctuary, just dropping off cards and getting on our knees to pray… I
want him and his family to know that the whole community is behind him and we're rooting for and
pulling for him and know that he is going to get through this and it will be an amazing story to tell."

Hawnethia Williams said the shooting hit her as hard as it has others and urged residents to use
this chance to bond together and remain together as a community.

"Sometimes it takes this kind of tragedy for us to come together as we know we should as human
beings," said Williams. "It is something that we need to learn - that we all bleed the same color
blood. T hat we have more things in common than we have in terms of differences. We all grieve
together for a person that sometimes we don't know, but is another human being that was
created by the same God that created us all… We need to remember that, and not just in times of
tragedy."

Mayor Ronnie Johnston agreed with others about continuing to bond as a community in praying
for Cooper.

"My challenge to this community is that Matt can get a statue made of him for being the guy that
led us down a path of really truly coming together and sustaining that for a long period of time,"
said Johnston… "We need to take Matt's courage and inspiration to a whole other level. Covington
is a special place, and we do care about each other."

Copyrig ht 2018, Newtown Citizen, All Rights Reserved.

 

Report: Tennessee officer wounded by friendly fire - Associated Press
State Wire: Tennessee (TN) - February 28, 2019
February 28, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN)

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — An investigation into a police shooting in Tennessee has found that an
officer was wounded by friendly fire during a call in which a black man was fatally shot, a local
broadcast report says.

Authorities have said officers responding last October to a reported assault located a man
matching the suspect's description in an apartment. Instead of calling for SWAT  team assistance,
Sershawn
investigators say, an officer opened a door to the apartment, leading 31-year-old Sershawn
M artez Dillon to flee and fire his weapon. Officers returned fire.
M artez Dillon

Dillon was killed and Nashville Police Officer Samuel Galluzzi was wounded.

WSMV-T V reports its review of the internal probe by the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation found
fellow officers shot Galluzzi. T he bureau says ballistic findings show Dillon only fired once.

Galluzzi was hit twice.

___

Information from: WSMV-T V, http://www.wsmv.com/

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
Autopsy: Black man was fatally shot once in back - Associated Press
State Wire: Tennessee (TN) - January 23, 2019
January 23, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN)

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — A Tennessee medical examiner's report says a black man killed by
Metro Nashville police last year was fatally shot once in his back at "indeterminate range."

Sershawn Martez Dillon has been
T he Tennessean reported the October death of 31-year-old Sershawn Martez Dillon
classified as a homicide. Tennessee Bureau of Investigation spokeswoman Susan Niland says the
agency has concluded its investigation and given the findings to county prosecutors.

T he T BI said officers say Dillion matched the description of an assault suspect and when officers
found him, and the situation escalated for reasons that remain unclear.

Police said Dillon exchanged gunfire with Detective Zachary Ronan and Officer John Petriello.
Another officer, Samuel Galuzzi, was wounded, and police said Tuesday he still is recovering.
Petriello and Ronan remain on administrative assignment.

___

Information from: T he T ennessean, http://www.tennessean.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
Police: 1 dead, officer injured following - Associated Press State Wire:
Tennessee (TN) - October 6, 2018
October 6, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN)

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — Tennessee authorities say one person is dead and an officer is injured
following a shooting at an apartment complex in Nashville.

T he Tennessee Bureau of Investigation officials say officers from the Nashville Police Department
responded to a call of shots fired late Friday and observed a person who matched the description
of a suspect running into an apartment.

Officers approached the apartment door and for reasons still under investigation, T BI officials say,
the situation escalated and resulted in gunfire between two officers and 31-year-old Sershawn
Sershawn
M artez Dillon.
M artez Dillon

Dillon was shot and died later at Vanderbilt University Medical Center. Officer Samuel Galluzzi was
struck in the thigh and ankle. T he 24-year-old officer is expected to survive.

An investigation is ongoing.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
An exchange of gunfire late Friday night at an apartment complex near Bordeaux left a gunman dead and a police

officer with a gunshot wound, authorities said. 

Police said officers were called to the Overlook Ridge apartments at about 10:30 p.m. Friday after receiving reports

of gunfire in the area. 

who died. 

A spokesman for the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, which is tasked with investigating the shooting, said "for

reasons still unclear, the situation escalated," resulting in the gunfire between two police officers and the subject

The TBI identified the deceased man as 31-year-old Sershawn Martez Dillon. 

The TBI said Dillon is believed to be the same individual responsible for a stranger sexual assault that occurred in

the same neighborhood just prior to his encounter with law enforcement. 

The Nashville police officer injured in the shooting was Samuel Galluzzi, 24, who has worked at the department for

two years. He's in stable condition after suffering gunshots to his thigh and ankle. 

Metro police say the two officers who "returned the gunman's fire" were Detective Zachary Ronan and Officer John

Petriello. 

The gunman died after being transported to Vanderbilt Medical Center. 

The officers who arrived at the complex, near Buena Vista and Clarksville Pikes, saw a person who matched the

description of the gunman in the initial report, said Josh Devine, a TBI spokesman. 

The person who police saw also matched the description of a suspect in a "pistol-whipping" incident earlier in the

evening, Devine said. 

have any reason to be in that unit, he said. 

The man went into a unit at the apartment complex, and police came to believe the man did not live or otherwise

He said police quickly regrouped and approached the apartment's door in an effort to make contact with the

subject and check the welfare of those inside the unit. 

"For reasons still very much under investigation at this time, the situation escalated and resulted in gunfire

between at least thee of the officers and the subject," Devine said. 

Two officers exchanged gunfire with the man in the apartment, Devine said. 

Dillon died at the scene. The injured officer was taken to a hospital with a gunshot wound to his leg and was

expected to survive. 

The shooting comes after police-involved shootings have gained more attention locally and nationally. 

Nashville police and TBI agents were investigating a shooting that injured a police officer on Friday at the Overlook

Ridge apartments. 

Mariah Timms/ The Tennessean 

CREDIT: Mariah Timms; Joey Garrison 
 
 

Publication title:

The Tennessean; Nashville, Tenn.



 
Three Nashville Metro police supervisors did not carry out their leadership roles during an officer-involved shooting

in October 2018, the department said in a release Monday —but if they had, an officer may not have been shot. 

Officer Samuel Galluzzi was shot twice in the leg during the Oct. 5 incident in the 2400 block of Buena Vista Pike.

Another man, Sershawn Martez Dillon, 30, was fatally shot once in the back by officers during the encounter. 

North Precinct leaders Lieutenant Viviyonne Lee, Sergeant Harold Wells and Sergeant James Boone face

disciplinary action following a police investigation. The office of professional accountability has recommended

that Lee and Wells be demoted. 

Their investigation found that if the supervisors had behaved appropriately, Galluzzi may not have been wounded. 

"This report finds no failure of policy or training, but rather a failure to use the training and policy knowledge these

supervisors had," MNPD Chief Steve Anderson said in the release. 

What happened in October? 

On the Night of Oct. 5, 2018, Galuzzi and another officer were dispatched to assist off-duty officers at the

Cumberland Pointe apartment complex. 

The call regarded a man believed to have been involved in a shots fired call, who may also have assaulted a

woman in a common area and entered a stranger's apartment with innocent persons inside. That suspect is

believed to be Dillon. According to the MNPD internal investigation, Galuzzi called Wells about the situation as it

evolved. Wells then told Lee what was happening. 

Neither supervisor headed to the scene at that point, the investigation showed. 

"The two supervisors did not immediately come to the scene. In fact, Galluzzi was told over the phone that, if he

had no further information, to write a report and check back into service," Metro police said in the release. 

At the scene, though, the release said Galuzzi was concerned about the situation and reached out to another

sergeant: Boone. Boone, the investigation showed, told the officer to reach out to a North Precinct detective for

Only after that detective arrived did Wells, Lee and Boone head to the apartment complex, the investigation

The plan then put in place and executed on Lee's orders is what led to the avoidable shooting, the investigation

help. 

revealed. 

revealed. 

What led up to the shooting? 

The supervisors, the officers and the detective were all on scene at the apartment complex. 

Even then, the release states that a "lack of communication" between the supervisors, officers and witnesses

contributed to the situation before the shooting. Lee, the investigation shows, decided to forgo the option of calling

in a specialized SWAT response to approach the apartment where the suspect in question was reportedly located. 

Lee obtained a pass key to the apartment, and she advanced on the apartment, followed by the other supervisors

and officers. 

Galluzzi reportedly told investigators that "none of the officers thought the decision was proper given the

circumstances, but they went along without a supervisory plan in place." 

Lee then used the pass key to open the door to the apartment and announced that she was conducting a welfare

check. During the exchange, the suspect, Dillon, allegedly fired his pistol and ran out of the apartment, causing all

The North Precinct detective and a fellow officer fired on Dillon, who was fatally wounded. 

Galluzzi was hit in the leg and ankle during the gunfire. It was not immediately clear who fired the shots that

of the officers to move for cover. 

injured Galluzzi. 

What are the supervisors facing? 

Lee faces a 20-day suspension; Boone a five-day suspension. The supervisors have until later this month to accept

the recommendations or request formal disciplinary hearings. 

Lee and Wells have been on administrative assignment since the shooting. 

"MNPD supervisors throughout the city are making correct decisions virtually every minute of the day in

accordance with the continuous training they receive," Anderson said in the release. "Decision-making lapses and

errors in a case like this, though extraordinarily rare, are very serious and are being treated as such." 

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation is handling the investigation into the officer-involved shooting, and the

department's internal investigation was conducted with their go-ahead, MNPD said. 

Reach reporter Mariah Timms at mtimms@tennessean.com or 615-259-8344 and on Twitter @MariahTimms. 

Lee 

Boone 

Wells 

Galluzzi 

CREDIT: Mariah Timms 
 
 


KCPD on fatal shootings: Man in fight pointed gun - Kansas City Star,
The (MO) - June 20, 2018
June 20, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Ian Cummings, Glenn E. Rice and Joe Robertson, The Kansas City
Star

Kansas City police on Wednesday released new details about two separate police shootings last
week that left three people dead in the same afternoon.

T he details, provided in a written statement from the Kansas City Police Department, come after
police have conducted an initial investigation of the shootings and while detectives continue to
collect witness statements and evidence. T he two shootings occurred within an hour of each other
on T hursday, June 14.

T he new information paints a clearer picture of what led up to the shooting in Barney Allis Plaza
downtown, where two men who were reportedly fighting were both shot and killed by police
officers.

T he statement also described how police, an hour earlier, came to fatally shoot a woman with a
sword in a Northland neighborhood.

According to police, the incident in Barney Allis Plaza, at 12th and Wyandotte streets, began shortly
before 5 p.m. when Timothy M osley
T imothy Mosley of T ulsa, Okla., was thrown out of the nearby Marriott Hotel
for causing a disturbance.

Mosley then allegedly walked into the plaza and used a handgun to rob a uniformed security guard
of some personal property and a golf cart. T he security guard escaped.

A short time later, someone called police to report that Mosley was fighting with another man,
later identified as Robert A. White, 34.

T imothy Mosley and Robert White.jpgT imothy D. Mosley, left, and Robert A. White
T imothy M osley

White, who was homeless and struggled with mental illness, often spent time at the park, a relative
said. Family members of both men said they didn't know whether the two knew each other.

In the plaza, the two men fought and separated several times over several minutes, during which
time Mosley had the gun, according to police.

When told of Wednesday's police statement, White' sister, Andrea Kleindienst, said the new details
confirmed to her that her brother was innocent.

"For us, this kind of exonerates my brother," Kleindienst said. "We felt he was gunned down and he
should not have been. It is tragic for both families. It is kind of along the lines of what we felt

happened. T hey murdered my brother."

T he police statement Wednesday says that between the fights, Mosley "walked around Barney
Allis Plaza holding the gun in the air and yelling."

But despite the violent confrontations, White did not leave the park, remaining at a nearby picnic
table. Police said they are trying to learn why the men were fighting, why White remained at the
park and whether the two had ever met before.

Police officers responding to the scene had been told that two men were fighting over a gun and
possibly a golf cart. Shortly after officers arrived, Mosley "re-engaged White," according to police.

As the two were struggling and physically intertwined, police say, Mosley pointed the gun at
officers.

Officers fired their guns, hitting both men.

T he officers rendered first aid, but both men died.

Investigators recovered a semi-automatic handgun from the scene and one spent shell casing
from a gun not belonging to police, matching the caliber of the recovered gun.

For Mosley's mother, Nella Mosley of T ulsa, the police statement was confusing and disturbing.

"T hey say he robbed a security guard? Why would he steal a golf cart?" she said. "I don't believe
T imothy pointed a gun at anyone. Until I see a video of him putting a gun on police, I won't believe
it."

Kansas City police officers generally don't wear body cameras.

T he only video of the shooting that has been seen publicly is footage from the phone of a witness
through the window of a nearby building. It shows Mosley fighting with White and the police
arriving. But Mosley and White are obscured by trees when police shoot.

Mosley's family is preparing for his funeral and grieving over the death of the 33-year-old barber
and stand-up comedian who had left Tulsa in mid-May to come to Kansas City.

"His spirit is gone, but the truth will prevail," Nella Mosley said. "T he truth's going to come out. I'm
praying about it."

Mosley had had some encounters with law enforcement in the past. He was arrested by T ulsa
police in June 2015 when officers found him at a casino, apparently under the influence of alcohol,
with a handgun in his pocket.

White also had a history with gun-related offenses, including a 2015 case of unlawful transport,
manufacture, repair or sale of an illegal weapon.

After releasing the statement Wednesday, Kansas City police declined to answer further questions
about the shootings, citing the ongoing investigations.

T he investigation is being handled internally by Kansas City police, as is standard practice for the
department.

Anyone who saw the shooting is asked to call the Police Department's homicide unit at 816-234-
5148.

Wednesday's police statement also addressed the fatal shooting of a woman in the Northland
about an hour before the Barney Allis Plaza incident.

T he statement says that police shot the woman, 28-year-old Ashley Simonetti, after she ran at
officers with a 27-inch steel sword.

ashley fb pic.JPGAshley Simonetti

Police identified Simonetti as Ashley Dean Fulkerson, which is her mother's last name.

According to police, the incident began about 1:30 p.m. when officers working in the area of
Northeast 38th Street and North Jackson Avenue saw a woman, later identified as Simonetti,
walking down the street with a sword.

She appeared to be headed toward a day care center. T he officers tried to talk to her, but she ran.

Simonetti then tried unsuccessfully to enter several homes before breaking into a house where no
one was home. T he alarm system went off, and she locked the door behind her.

Because police considered Simonetti armed and because she would not leave the house, they
initiated a procedure for an armed standoff. T hat procedure includes bringing more officers to the
scene, including a tactical team and negotiators.

Police surrounded the house, and the nearby day care was placed on lockdown.

After about an hour and 20 minutes, Simonetti left the house and fled into a nearby detached
garage, still carrying the sword. T he homeowner said last Friday that Simonetti had entered his
house through an unlocked door and took a decorative sword and put on a bridesmaid dress.

While she was fleeing, officers used several nonlethal tools to try to arrest her. Police did not
immediately specify those tools on Wednesday but said "although she was struck numerous times,
they were ineffective, which is very unusual."

Officers surrounded the garage to keep Simonetti from escaping. Trying to get her to surrender,
they used negotiators, pepper spray and beanbag projectiles, without success.

Negotiators tried to talk to Simonetti by phone and through a public address system but received
no response.

About 4 p.m. — "after being repeatedly instructed to disarm," police said — Simonetti left the
garage and "ran toward officers with the sword."

Officers shot and killed Simonetti.

Witness to Northland police shooting describes chaotic scene as woman with sword refuses to
surrenderGrant Braaten, who lives across the street from where Northland police shot and killed a
woman wielding a sword T hursday, describes the hours-long ordeal that led to her death.

An ambulance was waiting nearby, and paramedics responded to help Simonetti. She died at the
scene.

Police recovered the sword. No one else was injured.

In the statement Wednesday, police said the incidents were unfortunate and the deaths were
tragedies.

"T hese were outcomes no one wanted," read the statement, released by police spokesman Capt.
Lionel Colón. "Our community deserves to know what happens whenever police use lethal force,
but investigators also need time to gather evidence and statements to conduct a thorough
investigation."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 

'Will he get justice?' Dad of man killed downtown - Kansas City Star,
The (MO) - June 21, 2018
June 21, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Max Londberg, The Kansas City Star

Days after his only son was killed by police, Mark Draper tried to hold it together for his great-
grandson.

But his daughter caught him clenching his eyes shut, taking deep breaths. She knew his mind was
elsewhere.

"I'm not supposed to bury him. He's supposed to bury me," Mark Draper said Thursday by phone
from his home in Lowry City, about 20 miles south of Clinton. "(Kansas City police) cost me more
than I ever thought I'd lose.

"…It hurts my soul."

On Wednesday Kansas City police released additional details in last week's shooting at the Barney
Allis Plaza. Police said Draper's son was "struggling and physically intertwined" with another man
who pointed a gun at officers, prompting them to fire. Video shows three officers running toward
the two men with guns drawn and firing within 10 seconds.

Robert A. White, Draper's 34-year-old son, was killed, as was the man police say had the gun,
T imothy Mosley of T ulsa, Okla. White battled symptoms of mental illness for years, including
T imothy M osley
paranoia.

T imothy Mosley and Robert White.jpgT imothy D. Mosley, left, and Robert A. White
T imothy M osley

Draper, 60, called on Kansas City police to implement body cameras to clear up lingering questions
in situations like this one.

"I believe in law enforcement," Draper said. "I'm not picking on police, but from what I've seen, they
came in with guns blazing. … If officers had cameras on them, they could show the view on each
one of them."

Before fighting with White, Mosley was thrown out of the nearby Marriott Hotel for causing a
disturbance, police said. He then allegedly walked into the plaza and used a handgun to rob a
uniformed security guard of some personal property and a golf cart. T he security guard escaped.

White's sister, Andrea Kleindienst, echoed her father's call for implementing body cameras.

As Kansas City police — which internally investigates shootings its officers are involved in over
critics complaints — reviews evidence in the shooting, Kleindienst asked, "Why can't we? Why can't
we expect the same from them by being required to wear body-worn cameras?"

Cameras would eliminate any suspicions of police's conclusions, she added.

Police shooting near Barney Allis Plaza; 2 deadPolice were on the scene late Thursday afternoon in
response to an officer-involved shooting near 12th and Wyandotte. Two were killed.

Last June, officials said it could take until 2020 to implement the technology, with initial costs
estimated at $6 million for the Department.

When asked for updates Thursday on their progress, Jacob Becchina, a police spokesman, said,
"We are always exploring technology that is out there that will make us more effective and better
able to serve the public."

He added that the three officers' names would not be released and said he didn't have "specific
information" regarding whether they were on paid administrative leave, a typical outcome
following officer-involved shootings.

Matthew Sinno, a Massachusetts man who witnessed the shooting from the ninth-floor of the
nearby Marriott Hotel, said officers yelled commands, imploring Mosley to drop the weapon and
raise his hands before they fired.

Mosley and White were obscured by trees from his vantage when they were killed.

"T he only people who really know what happened that day are the three police officers," he said,
adding, "I imagine they should all wear body cameras for both sides — to protect police … and
protect victims for when lethal force isn't necessary."

Police said they recovered a spent shell casing that matched the caliber of Mosley's gun. Sinno said
he didn't hear any gunshots until police arrived.

Police have not responded to a question asked last week about whether officers took fire.

Jackson County Prosecutor Jean Peters Baker, following precedent, called Kleindienst on T hursday
and offered condolences.

"In the kindest, most professional way, she said she's not going to sugarcoat anything, on either
end" in her investigation of the shooting, Kleindienst said.

White's family planned to cremate his body T hursday.

Draper concluded after viewing the video that police killed his son "like a mad dog."

"My son didn’t have a gun, didn't have a weapon, wasn’t threatening the police officers, but my
son’s dead," he said. "Will he get justice?"

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 
More information released on 2 Kansas City police - Associated Press
State Wire: Missouri (MO) - June 20, 2018
June 20, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Missouri (MO)

KANSAS CIT Y, Mo. (AP) — Kansas City police are releasing more details about two officer-involved
shootings that occurred within an hour of each other last week, leaving three people dead.

In a statement released Wednesday, police said they fatally shot Ashley Simonetti, 28, after she
rushed police with a 27-inch steel sword. T he shooting occurred after officers saw Simonetti, also
known as Ashley Fulkerson, walking down the street with a sword toward a daycare center.

Police said she tried unsuccessfully to enter several homes before breaking into a house where no
one was home. She stayed inside the home and a nearby garage for nearly two hours while
officers tried several nonlethal methods to get her to surrender. Eventually, Simonetti left the
garage and "ran toward officers with a sword," the statement said. Officers then shot and killed
Simonetti.

She died at the scene. No one else was injured.

About an hour later, officers received a report of two men fighting at the Barney Allis Plaza in
downtown Kansas City. According to police, that incident began when Timothy M osley
T imothy M osley, of T ulsa,
Oklahoma, was thrown out of a nearby Marriott Hotel for causing a disturbance. He allegedly then
walked into the plaza and used a handgun to steal personal property and a golf cart from a
uniformed security guard, who escaped.

Officers were then notified that Mosley was fighting with Robert White, 38, a homeless man. T he
two men had several intermittent altercations, and when they stopped Mosley walked around the
plaza yelling and holding the weapon in the air, police said.

Shortly after officers arrived, the men began fighting again. T hey were struggling and physically
intertwined when Mosley pointed the gun at officers, who fired, hitting both men, police said. Both
men died at the scene.

Police said they are still investigating why the men were fighting, why White stayed at the scene
between altercations and whether the two men had met before.

T imothy M osley
T imothy Mosley's mother, Nella Mosley, said the police statement was confusing and disturbing,
T he Kansas City Star reported .

"T hey say he robbed a security guard? Why would he steal a golf cart?" she said. "I don't believe
T imothy pointed a gun at anyone. Until I see a video of him putting a gun on police, I won't believe
it."

Kansas City police generally don't wear body cameras and the only video seen publicly was taken by
a witness and doesn't show the men when police shot at them.

After releasing the statement, Kansas City police declined to answer further questions about the
shootings.

"T hese were outcomes no one wanted," police said in the statement, released by police
spokesman Capt. Lionel Colón. "Our community deserves to know what happens whenever police
use lethal force, but investigators also need time to gather evidence and statements to conduct a
thorough investigation."

___

Information from: T he Kansas City Star, http://www.kcstar.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
'A huge mistake': Families of 2 men shot and - Kansas City Star, The (MO)
- June 19, 2018
June 19, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | Joe Robertson, Glenn E. Rice, Max Londberg and Ian Cummings,
The Kansas City Star

One question. T hat's all Nella Mosley had for the Jackson County coroner.

Her 33-year-old son was one of two men shot and killed by Kansas City police officers in a
downtown square, and the man she reached on the phone had been there when Tim Mosley's
body came into the morgue T hursday.

"Were his eyes open or closed?" she asked.

Closed, he answered.

Many more questions trouble family members and friends of both Mosley and 34-year-old Robert
A. White after police responding to their apparent fight over a gun and a golf cart quickly shot both
of them in the Barney Allis Plaza at 12th and Wyandotte streets.

T imothy Mosley and Robert White.jpgT imothy D. Mosley, left, and Robert A. White
T imothy M osley

It is unclear who was originally in possession of the gun, how the golf cart was involved or what
started the altercation. Police are releasing few details as the investigation continues.

But Nella Mosley was sure, with his eyes closed, that her son at least knew death was coming.

She imagines that her son — described by friends in his hometown of T ulsa, Okla., Monday as a
talented barber and a provocative comedian — remembered her long-ago advice.

"If you don't want to feel it," she said, thinking of doctor's shots and needle pricks, "close your
eyes."

"T hat's what he did. He took those bullets."

His life came to an end along with White's, who was struggling with mental illness and was often
homeless, his sister said.

A witness' cellphone video showed that Mosley was dominating in the fight. White's sister, Andrea
Kleindienst of Clinton, said her brother needed the police's help.

Instead, "they killed my brother."

Neither she nor people who knew Mosley have any clue what brought the two men together in the

park.

Police shooting near Barney Allis Plaza; 2 deadPolice were on the scene late Thursday afternoon in
response to an officer-involved shooting near 12th and Wyandotte. Two were killed.

Kleindienst said White had regularly spent time around that park, often haunted by psychotic
hallucinations. He had talked about a job he had secured in St. Joseph and that he was going to be
moving there.

"T he last conversation I had with him, he said he wanted to get out and make some amends with
everybody," she said.

Mosley may have been hoping to take a crack at working in Kansas City comedy clubs. He didn't
say so, though, when he left Tulsa in mid-May.

His father, Thomas Russell of T ulsa, said his son called him the night of June 13, the day before he
died.

"He wanted to see how I was doing," Russell said. Mosley told his father he was living in a motel
and that a temp agency had been getting him "some cool jobs."

"He told me he was looking to find another place (to live) that took pets, because he wanted to get
a dog."

Father's Day passed with his son gone. T he unanswered questions torment him.

"I need to know," he said of the police's actions. "I need to know. My son didn't deserve this. T he
other man, too. T hey killed both of them."

Mosley is black and White is white, but the initial dispatch sending officers to the scene described
them both as black.

"Assist on a disturbance . . . involving a black male wearing black clothes. He's armed with a
handgun and stole a golf cart," the dispatcher said shortly before 5 p.m., according to a recording
of the call published on Broadcastify.com. "T he black male is currently fighting with another black
male . . . (inaudible) said they're fighting over the gun right now."

Police said one of the men was found with a gun but haven't specified who. T hey also haven't said
why an unarmed man out of reach of the officers was considered a lethal threat.

Video shows three officers approaching the two men with their guns drawn. Mosley and White are
obscured by trees when the officers open fire.

T he investigation is being handled internally by Kansas City police, Police Chief Rick Smith said
T hursday.

Police spokesman Capt. Lionel Colón said Saturday that the police "take both the concerns of

those touched by tragedy and the integrity of the investigation seriously."

T he news of Mosley's death was stunning, said Patti Ferguson, a retired teacher who taught
humanities at Nathan Hale High School, where Mosley is remembered even after 15 years.

His wit, his deep thinking — "you could see the wheels turning" — she said, made him one of those
students "who never left my heart."

He was a wrestler, football player and a yell leader at the school.

His charm first made him a hit at Barber King in T ulsa, where he started as a sweeper when he was
12, and became a barber when he was 17, said owner Mike Kelly-Counsellor.

Mosley went with Kelly-Counsellor when he took the business to his hometown in the Baltimore
area, then returned to Tulsa with the business several years ago.

"He was the funniest, most provocative-thinking, intelligent guy in the barber shop," Kelly-
Counsellor said. "He had an answer for everything."

He began working Tulsa comedy clubs and got opportunities to open for some major acts.

"He was funny as hell," friend Danny Patton said. "He was the class clown. He made everyone
laugh."

Mosley had had some encounters with law enforcement in the past. He was arrested by T ulsa
police in June 2015 when officers found him at a casino apparently under the influence of alcohol
with a handgun in his pocket.

White also had a history with gun-related offenses, including a 2015 case of unlawful transport,
manufacture, repair or sale of an illegal weapon.

White grew up in California and Warrensburg, Kleindienst said. T he symptoms he battled included
hallucinations, paranoia and manic episodes. He needed help, she said, and had hopes of improving
his standing in life.

For the police to shoot him, she said, was "a huge mistake."

Nella Mosley will likely never know why her son was fighting with White, but she believes that, in a
different situation, he would have wanted to help White.

In T ulsa, she said, she saw her son regularly give aid to a man he passed outside their
neighborhood QuikT rip, getting him coffee or something to eat.

He was a member of the Fairfield, Conn.-based Save the Children organization, providing a regular
donation to aid children. Nella Mosley said she will continue paying for him.

At night she struggles for sleep, she said. She closes her eyes, waiting to learn from the police

investigation.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 

 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. (AP) - Police have released the names of two men shot and killed by officers in downtown

Kansas City.  

downtown public square.  

Police say 34-year-old Robert White and 33-year-old Timothy Mosley were killed in the shooting late Thursday

afternoon. Police say the men were fighting over a golf cart and a gun in the middle of Barney Allis Plaza, a

The melee led hundreds of professors and teachers in town for an event at the nearby Kansas City Convention

Center to briefly seek shelter in the basement.  

Police Chief Rick Smith says the officers "did what they thought was necessary."  

The shooting happened less than an hour after city officers fatally shot a woman reportedly seen brandishing a

sword, raising concerns about police tactics and how the investigations will be handled.  

Credit: By BRIAN SLODYSKO and ANNIE RICE 
 
 

Police ID men killed by police in downtown Kansas - Associated Press
State Wire: Missouri (MO) - June 16, 2018
June 16, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Missouri (MO)

KANSAS CIT Y, Mo. (AP) — Police have released the names of two men shot and killed by officers in
downtown Kansas City.

T imothy Mosley were killed in the shooting
Police say 34-year-old Robert White and 33-year-old Timothy M osley
late Thursday afternoon. Police say the men were fighting over a golf cart and a gun in the middle
of Barney Allis Plaza, a downtown public square.

T he melee led hundreds of professors and teachers in town for an event at the nearby Kansas City
Convention Center to briefly seek shelter in the basement.

Police Chief Rick Smith says the officers "did what they thought was necessary."

T he shooting happened less than an hour after city officers fatally shot a woman reportedly seen
brandishing a sword, raising concerns about police tactics and how the investigations will be
handled.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Body cameras provide insight in police shootings. - Kansas City Star,
The (MO) - June 22, 2018
June 22, 2018 | Kansas City Star, The (MO) | The Kansas City Star Editorial Board, The Kansas City Star

Recent police shootings that left three dead in Kansas City are yet another reminder: Officers
should be equipped with body cameras. And the Kansas City Police Department shouldn’t wait until
2020 to make that happen.

Even though the Kansas City Police Department has studied the issue for years and rolled out a
pilot program about two years ago, it lags behind counterparts in other major cities.

T he initial price tag to implement the technology was expected to be around $6 million, police
officials said last year. But now, the time line for implementation has slid all the way to 2020.

T he continued delays are a disservice to both officers and the citizens they protect and serve.

Body cameras are an essential tool that provides accountability and transparency. T he technology
has been used to clear officers of various allegations. Footage has also been used to implicate
wayward officers who may have otherwise escaped legal scrutiny.

In 21st-century policing, body cameras are also important in fostering trust within the community.

“We are always exploring technology that is out there that will make us more effective and better
able to serve the public,” Kansas City Police Sgt. Jacob Becchina, the department’s spokesman, told
T he Star on T hursday.

A Police Executive Research Forum survey found that 39 percent of police departments that do not
use body cameras cited cost as a primary reason. But excuses have been exhausted here in
Kansas City. T he police department can't afford not to invest in this readily available technology.

As the father of one of the three victims shot and killed recently by police in Kansas City said, if
officers had been wearing cameras, they could clear up any misconception about what police did
and didn’t do correctly.

“I’m not picking on police,” Mark Draper said. “But from what I’ve seen, they came in with guns
blazing.”

Police said Draper’s 34-year-old son, Robert A. White, was physically intertwined with T imothy
T imothy
M osley during a fight when officers shot both men. Police contend Mosley pointed a gun at them.
M osley

A bystander’s video shows the encounter. Three officers fired within 10 seconds.

T he department’s initial account of the incident seemed to justify the shooting. Body camera

footage could have corroborated that assertion.

In another recent case, officers shot Ashley Simonetti as she wielded a decorative sword.

T he absence of body cameras and the police department's policy of withholding the names of
officers involved in use-of-force incidents combine to sow distrust.

Standard professional practices suggest departments release officers' names within 48 to 72
hours. So far, KCPD officials have not identified the officers involved. And they don’t plan to.

Shouldn’t the public know if officers have been involved in multiple shootings? T hat’s an
accountability issue that could easily be addressed. Equipping police with body cameras would also
help.

T he police board must approve the use of body cameras. What's the delay?

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Kansas City Star

 


 
Tabitha Choates could tell her cousin was struggling.  

When Sidney Richardson IVcame over to her north Tampa home for dinner last Saturday, there was a look in the

former U.S. Marine's eye that troubled her.  

"Little by little, you could tell his mind was walking away from him," Choates said in her first interview since a

Tampa police officer fatally shot Richardson last week. "He was losing focus and things he was saying didn't make

sense."  

At one point, the cousins prayed together, with Richardson asking God to protect their family's women from

rapists. It was a strange plea, but Choates wasn't alarmed. Richardson had been grappling with post-traumatic

stress disorder and paranoia, his family said, but he'd never been violent.  

But as dinner was cooking, Richardson picked up a machete.  

Minutes later, the 48-year-old Brandon man was dead, shot after he barricaded himself inside a bedroom with

Choates' 17-year-old daughter.  

Richardson's family is now left to wonder what came over the man they knew, and whether police could have

gotten the girl out safely without killing a man in the apparent grip of a mental health crisis. They said Richardson

was behaving more erratically in the days leading up to the shooting. Records show he spoke to police at least

three separate times on the day before he was killed to warn them that people around him were in danger.  

"He loved his family," said his son, Sidney Richardson V. "In his eyes, he was protecting us. We tried our best to let

him know everything was okay, but in his mind, it wasn't."  

- - -  

The younger Richardson said he first noticed the paranoia after his father left the military.  

Richardson spent a dozen years in the U.S. Marines Corps, six in the reserves and six on active duty, records show.

He served in Iraq in 2002 and then in Africa, according to friends and family.  

In 2008, he received a bad conduct discharge after a court martial found him guilty of larceny, records show.

Details of the case were not available this week.  

Richardson believed he was being spied on, his family said. About two years ago, he called his son and said he had

fled to Canada because someone was trying to kill him.  

His family and friends never felt unsafe around him, though. He wasn't violent and they could usually calm him

down when he had paranoid episodes.  

"He was kind-hearted, great company," said Choates, a mother of three. "If you needed him, he was there for you.''  

Richards was officially diagnosed with PTSD about a year ago and had attended some group therapy sessions,

said his friend, Michelle Williams.  

But by last week, at least some family members decided he needed more acute care.  

The day before the shooting, a Hillsborough sheriff's deputy responding to a suspicious person call met with

Richardson at his apartment.  

"Richardson began to tell me that he believed the children in the neighborhood were telling him that they were

being controlled by pedophiles," the deputy wrote in a report. The children, Richardson told the deputy, were

communicating this through the color of their clothing.  

The deputy concluded that Richardson didn't meet the criteria to be taken into protective custody under the state's

Baker Act because he wasn't threatening to harm himself or others.  

The younger Richardson said the deputy called him and asked about his father's mental health history because he

was showing signs of schizophrenia. The deputy suggested he file a petition to have his father committed for a

mental health evaluation.  

The son wrestled with the decision.  

"I called my uncle to make sure I was doing the right thing and he said, 'Yeah, you should do it,'" Richardson said.  

An hour later, his father showed up at his son's apartment. He told him someone was going to try to hurt him. His

son tried to ease his fears.  

"It was the worst I'd ever seen him," Richardson said.  

At about 10:50 p.m., the elder Richardson called Tampa police and told a dispatcher that a woman in his son's

apartment complex had been yelling, "Rape, please help," for about half an hour. None of the residents a

responding officer spoke with heard anything like what Richardson reported, police said.  

An hour later, Richardson walked into TPD's north Tampa office and asked to speak with an officer, preferably a

Marine, records show. The dispatcher referred to Richardson as a "possible" signal 20, or mentally ill person.  

An officer who was also a Marine veteran spoke with Richardson, who complained about drugs and prostitution at

his son's apartment complex, Tampa police spokesman Steve Hegarty said. The officer sensed that Richardson

might have mental health issues and offered to drive him to the VA, Hegarty said. Richardson declined, saying he

was fine. The officer let him go because he did not fit the criteria to be taken into custody for the Baker Act,

Hegarty said.  

- - -  

The next day, Choates invited Richardson over for dinner.  

"To get him out of the house," she said, "and into a loving atmosphere."  

Choates decided to go out for burgers for her kids. She said the trouble began when her husband and uncle, who

were also home, suggested to Richardson that they all go to the store.  

Richardson told his family he didn't want to leave Choates' oldest daughter, Jess, alone. Minutes later, Choates got

a call from her husband saying Richardson had become agitated, armed himself with a machete and locked them

out. Jess was still in the house.  

Choates returned and police officers arrived. She said officers spent about five minutes outside trying to get

Richardson to open the door, then let themselves in with a key. Richardson and Jess were locked in a bedroom.  

Choates said officers spent about 15 minutes outside the door trying to convince Richardson that they just wanted

Jess out safely. Jess would later tell her mother that Richardson told her he was about to kill some people. She

said he spoke into an imaginary walkie talkie on his shoulder, asking for backup.  

According to the police department's account, Cpl. Salvatore Mazza and Officer Juan Hernandez kicked in the door

of the bedroom and ordered Richardson to drop the machete. Mazza used his stun gun on Richardson, but it didn't

work. It is still unclear why.  

screaming.  

Officer Juan Hernandez then opened fire. Choates heard at least five shots, and then her daughter ran out

The shooting is still under investigation, but in an interview this week, police Chief Brian Dugan defended the

officers' actions. He said officers are trained to de-escalate situations involving unstable people but Mazza and

Hernandez had to act fast once they got into the tight confines of the bedroom.  

"The girl was in danger," Dugan said. "We couldn't just retreat and give him space.''  

Choates said she understands the officers were acting in her daughter's best interest.  

"I feel like they did what they needed to do to get my child out of the room and protect her," she said. "The Sidney

that everybody knows was not the Sidney shot by police."  

Times staff writer Howard Altman contributed to this report. Contact Tony Marrero at tmarrero@tampabay.com or

Shootings; Mental health care; Post traumatic stress disorder

Africa United States--US Canada Iraq

Publication title:

Tampa Bay Times; Tampa Bay

(813) 226-3374. Follow @tmarrerotimes. 

Credit: TONY MARRERO, TIMES STAFF WRITER 
 
 



 
A Florida man allegedly wielding a machete was fatally shot by police late Saturday after he refused to drop his

weapon, The Tampa Bay Times reported. 

Tampa police received a call about a man threatening a relative with the machete and found Sidney T. Richardson

IV in a room with his 17-year-old cousin, the Times reported. Police ordered Richardson to put down the machete

and he allegedly refused, even after police used a taser. 

According to a Tampa Police Department news release, officers feared for their safety and that of the female

teenager. One officer fired his weapon, killing Richardson, according to the release. Neither the teen nor the

officers were injured. 

The officers were placed on paid administrative leave while the incident is under investigation, the Times reported. 

Credit: Bob D’Angelo, Cox Media Group National Content Desk 
 
 


 
TAMPA —Tampa police fatally shot a machete-wielding man late Saturday after the man refused to drop his

weapon even after being tased. 

Officers arrived at the 1800 block of Marvy Avenue in north Tampa after receiving a call regarding a man

threatening a relative with a machete, according to a Tampa Police Department news release. 

Sidney T. Richardson IV was in a room with his 17-year-old cousin, Jessica Marsh, when police ordered Richardson

to drop the weapon several times. Even after a taser was deployed, Richardson held on to the machete, police said. 

Police feared for Marsh’s safety and their own safety, the release stated. 

One officer fired his weapon at Richardson, killing him. Neither Marsh nor the officers were injured. 

The officers have been placed on paid administrative leave while the shooting is investigated, which is standard

practice, according to the release. 

Credit: Times staff 
 
 


 
 

Enlarge this image. 

 

Enlarge this image. 

TAMPA —Tabitha Choates could tell her cousin was struggling. 

When Sidney Richardson IV came over to her north Tampa home for dinner on Saturday, there was a look in the

former U.S. Marine’s eye that troubled her. 

"Little by little, you could tell his mind was walking away from him," Choates said in her first interview since a

Tampa police officer fatally shot Richardson last week. "He was losing focus and things he was saying didn’t make

sense." 

At one point, the cousins prayed together, with Richardson asking God to protect their family’s women from

rapists. It was a strangely specific plea, but Choates wasn’t alarmed. Richardson had been grappling with post-

traumatic stress disorder and paranoia, his family said, but he’d never been violent. 

But as dinner was cooking, Richardson picked up a machete. 

Minutes later, the 48-year-old Brandon man was dead, shot after he barricaded himself inside a bedroom with

Choates’ 17-year-old daughter. 

Richardson’s family is now left to wonder what came over the man they knew, and whether police could have

gotten the girl out safely without killing a man in the apparent grip of a mental health crisis. They said Richardson

was behaving more erratically in the days leading up to the shooting. Records show he spoke to police at least

three separate times on the day before he was killed to warn them that people around him were in danger. 

"He loved his family," said his son, Sidney Richardson V. "In his eyes, he was protecting us. We tried our best to let

him know everything was okay, but in his mind, it wasn’t." 

••• 

The younger Richardson said he first noticed the paranoia after his father left the military. 

Richardson spent a dozen years in the U.S. Marines Corps, six in the reserves and six on active duty, records show.

He served in Iraq during Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2002 and then in Africa, according to friends and family. 

In 2008, he received a bad conduct discharge after a court martial found him guilty of larceny or "wrongful

appropriation," military records show. Details of the case were not available this week. 

Richardson believed he was being spied on, his family said. About two years ago, he called his son and said he had

fled to Canada because someone was trying to kill him. 

His family and friends never felt unsafe around him, though. He had never been violent and they could usually calm

him down when he had paranoid episodes. 

he was there for you. The kids loved him." 

"He was kind-hearted, great company and always motivating," said Choates, a mother of three. "If you needed him,

Richards was officially diagnosed with PTSD about a year ago and had attended some group therapy sessions

with other veterans, said his friend, Michelle Williams. 

But by last week, at least some family members decided he needed more acute care. 

The day before the shooting, a Hillsborough sheriff’s deputy responding to a suspicious person call met with

Richardson at his apartment. 

"Richardson began to tell me that he believed the children in the neighborhood were telling him that they were

being controlled by pedophiles," the deputy wrote in a report. The children, Richardson told the deputy, were

communicating this through the color of their clothing. 

The deputy concluded that Richardson didn’t meet the criteria to be taken into protective custody under the state’s

Baker Act because he wasn’t threatening to harm himself or others. The deputy noticed a glass jar with a small

amount of marijuana in the apartment and some marijuana cigarettes. Richardson agreed to let the deputy take it. 

The younger Richardson said the deputy called him and asked about his father’s mental health history because he

was showing signs of schizophrenia. The deputy suggested he file a petition to have his father committed for a

mental health evaluation and treatment. 

Richardson wrestled with the decision. 

"I called my uncle to make sure I was doing the right thing and he said, ‘Yeah, you should do it,’ " Richardson said.

But he’d have to wait to file the petition on Monday, when the clerk’s office opened. 

An hour later, his father showed up at his son’s north Tampa apartment. He told his son someone was going to try

to hurt him. His son tried to ease his fears. 

"It was the worst I’d ever seen him," Richardson said. "Before he left, he was yelling, ‘I’m going to the police station

and I won’t stop until I get some help.’ That’s the last thing I heard him say." 

At about 10:50 p.m., the elder Richardson called Tampa police and told a dispatcher that a woman in his son’s

apartment complex had been yelling "Rape, please help," for about half an hour. A responding officer knocked on

every door of the building. None of the residents the officer spoke with heard anything like what Richardson

reported, according to police notes. 

signal 20, or mentally ill person. 

About an hour later, Richardson walked into Tampa police’s District 2 office on North 30th Street and asked to

speak with an officer, preferably a U.S. Marine, records show. The dispatcher referred to Richardson as a "possible"

An officer who was also a Marine veteran spoke with Richardson, who complained about drugs and prostitution at

his son’s apartment complex, Tampa police spokesman Steve Hegarty said. The officer sensed that Richardson

might have mental health issues and offered to drive him to the VA, Hegarty said. Richardson declined, saying he

was fine. The officer let him go because he did not fit the criteria to be taken into custody for the Baker Act,

The younger Richardson said his father spent the night at a cousin’s house. The next day, Choates invited

Richardson over for dinner that night. 

"To get him out of the house," she said, "and into a loving atmosphere." 

Hegarty said. 

••• 

Knowing the stew would take a while to cook, Choates decided to go out for burgers for her kids. She said the

trouble began when her husband and uncle, who were also home, suggested to Richardson that they all three

make a trip to the store. 

Richardson told his family he didn’t want to leave Choates’ oldest daughter Jess alone. Minutes later, Choates got

a call from her husband saying Richardson had become agitated, armed himself with a machete and locked them

out of the house. Jess was still inside. 

Choates returned and then police officers arrived. She said officers spent about five minutes outside trying to get

Richardson to open the door, then let themselves in with a key. Richardson had locked himself and Jess in her

bedroom. 

Choates said officers spent about 15 minutes outside the door, trying to convince Richardson that they didn’t want

to hurt him or his family, that they just wanted Jess out safely. Jess would later tell her mother that Richardson

had told her to get her phone ready because he was about to kill some people. She said he spoke into an imaginary

walkie talkie on his shoulder, asking for backup. 

According to the police department’s account, Corporal Salvatore Mazza and Officer Juan Hernandez kicked in the

door of the bedroom and ordered Richardson to drop the machete. Mazza used his stun gun to try to subdue

Richardson, but that didn’t work. It is still unclear why. 

Officer Juan Hernandez then opened fire. 

Standing outside, Choates heard at least five shots, and then her daughter ran out screaming. 

"She said the look in (Richardson’s) eye was like no other," Choates said. "She said she knew her cousin loved her

and was trying to protect her but she was afraid because he was unpredictable at that moment." 

The shooting is still under investigation, but in an interview this week, Police Chief Brian Dugan defended the

officers’ actions. He said officers are trained to de-escalate situations involving unstable people but Mazza and

Hernandez had to act fast once they got into the tight confines of the bedroom. 

"The girl was in danger," Dugan said. "We couldn’t just retreat and give him space. He tried to advance at them, and

they couldn’t just leave her in there." 

The chief said the case is another example of how frontline law enforcement officers are often forced to confront

people in the throes of a mental health crisis. 

"The officers did what they had to do, but that doesn’t make the outcome any easier to take," he said. "If we don’t

do something about mental health issues in this country, these situations are going to continue to happen." 

Choates said she understands the officers were acting in her daughter’s best interest. 

"I feel like they did what they needed to do to get my child out of the room and protect her," she said. "The Sidney

that everybody knows was not the Sidney shot by police." 

Sidney Richardson V said he thinks the officers should have spent more time trying to convince his father to

cooperate. 

"I just wish there had been more talking, more de-escalating," he said. 

The night of the shooting, as he stood crying in front of Choates’ house, he had another thought. 

Times staff writer Howard Altman contributed to this report. Contact Tony Marrero at [email protected] or (813)

"That I wish I’d gotten him help sooner." 

226-3374. Follow @tmarrerotimes. 

Credit: Tony Marrero 
 
 


 
Tampa police fatally shot a machete-wielding man late Saturday. The man refused to drop his weapon, even after

being tased.  

Officers arrived at 1805 Marvy Ave. in north Tampa after receiving a call regarding a man threatening a relative

with a machete, according to a Tampa Police Department news release.  

Sidney T. Richardson IV was in a room with his 17-year-old cousin, Jessica Marsh, when police ordered Richardson

to drop the weapon several times. Even after a taser was deployed, Richardson held on to the machete, police said.

 

 

Police feared for Marsh's safety and their own, the release stated.  

One officer fired his weapon at Richardson, killing him. Neither Marsh nor the officers were injured.  

The officers have been placed on paid administrative leave while the shooting is investigated, which is standard

practice, according to the release. 

Credit: TIMES STAFF 
 
 


 
 

Enlarge this image. 

just before he died. 

TAMPA —J.R. Walton couldn’t get to the phone when his friend and former commanding officer called Saturday

Walton had done two tours in the U.S. Marines with Sidney T. Richardson IV. Decades later, the two men were still

friends, coping with post-traumatic stress disorder together, Walton said. 

He was working his barber job when Richardson called at 6:43 p.m. 

"By 8 o’clock, he was dead," Walton said Monday. 

Walton and local activists are questioning whether the Tampa police officer who fatally shot Richardson at a north

Tampa home used unnecessary force. They want a federal investigation into the shooting. They suspect

Richardson, 48, was having some sort of mental health breakdown in the moments leading up to the shooting. 

"Sid is not a defiant person," said Michelle Williams, Walton’s mother-in-law and a Tampa social justice activist

who knew Richardson for about six years. "He must have been going through some kind of episode. Why couldn’t

he be afforded someone who could talk him off the ledge?" 

The Tampa Police Department on Monday released the name of the officers involved. Corporal Salvatore Mazza

used his stun gun to try to subdue Richardson and Officer Juan Hernandez fired as "a last resort," a department

spokesman said. 

Mazza and Hernandez arrived at 1805 N Marvy Avenue shortly before 7 p.m. after someone called to report that a

man was threatening a relative, according to Tampa police. They found Richardson in a room with a 17-year-old

female cousin. He was wielding a machete and refused orders to drop it, police said. 

One of the officers used his Taser to try to subdue Richardson but the stun gun was not effective, police said. At

that point, Hernandez opened fire, hitting Richardson at least once. 

No one else was injured. 

"The officers were confronted with a situation where a man wielded a machete, putting a relative and the

responding officers in danger," department spokesman Steve Hegarty said in an email to the Tampa Bay Times.

"The officers issued verbal commands to drop the machete. Mr. Richardson did not comply. The officer used non-

lethal force —a Taser. Mr. Richardson did not comply. The officer then resorted to lethal force as a last resort." 

Hernandez started with the department in December 2011, has no disciplinary history and has never fired his

weapon in the line of duty, Hegarty said. 

standard practice. 

Both Hernandez and Mazza have been placed on paid administrative leave while the case is investigated. This is

Friends described Richardson as a smart, kind, soft-spoken Christian man who sought mental health treatment for

PTSD but seemed increasingly troubled in recent months. 

Walton said Richardson was his platoon leader when they served with the Marines’ 4th Assault Amphibian

Battalion in Iraq during Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2002. They later served together during a tour in Djibouti, Africa,

and Richardson was honorably discharged about five years ago, according to Walton. 

The Times on Monday could not immediately confirm details about Richardson’s service. 

When Williams met Richardson, he was struggling to secure health benefits through the Department of Veterans

Affairs. Williams said she helped him navigate the bureaucracy. He began mental health treatment in 2015, she

said, and was officially diagnosed with PTSD about a year ago. 

The unmarried father of an adult son, Richardson started to open up about the violence he witnessed during his

service, Williams said. 

suffering from deep depression." 

"He was getting care and going to his appointments," she said. "He was on top of everything but he was still

Richardson also thought the government "was out to get him," Walton said. He was sure he was being monitored

and urged the management at his Brandon apartment complex to remove the cameras and microphones he

believed had been installed there. He rarely left his apartment, Walton said. 

"I literally watched him start losing it," Walton said. "It’s been getting worse in probably the last six months. He

could be in a good mood now and in five minutes it’s a total switch." 

On Friday, Richardson sent Walton a text saying he needed help. Walton said Richardson seemed okay when the

two men spoke by phone Saturday morning. 

"He was kind of frustrated, but he was calm," Walton said. 

Richardson’s family members could not be reached or declined comment Monday. 

"Today, my life changed forever," Richardson’s brother Reggie Richardson Sr., posted Saturday on Facebook. "I lost

my brother Sidney Richardson to PTSD. Please understand it is serious with our vets. Keep me and family in your

prayers." 

man of color. 

For local activists, the shooting is another troubling case of questionable police behavior leading to the death of a

Two local advocacy groups, the Restorative Justice Council and Showing Up for Racial Justice Tampa, are calling

for a federal investigation separate from the standard review conducted by the Florida Department of Law

Enforcement, said RJC co-founder Angel D’Angelo. A news conference is set for 6 p.m. Tuesday, when the groups

will repeat their call for the department to implement a range of reforms, including revamping its use-of-force

policy and outfitting all patrol officers with body cameras, D’Angelo said. 

"We want to emphasize to the Tampa Police Department and those in power that they need to listen because we

can’t keep having member of the community dying," he said. 

Times senior researcher John Martin contributed to this report. Contact Tony Marrero at [email protected] or (813)

226-3374. Follow @tmarrerotimes. 

Credit: Tony Marrero 
 
 


 
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) - A Florida man has been fatally shot by police after he allegedly threatened a relative with a

The Tampa Police Department said in a news release that 48-year-old Sidney T. Richardson IV was shot by one

officer Saturday night after he refused to drop the machete. Officers first tried to subdue him with a Taser but it

Police were responding to a call that Richardson had threatened relatives. Officers found him with his 17-year-old

cousin in a room at his residence. She was not injured but police say they feared for her safety. 

Authorities say the officers have been placed on paid administrative leave while the shooting is investigated. 

machete. 

was ineffective. 

Credit: Associated Press 
 
 


Family looks for answers in CPD officer’s fatal - Chicago Sun-Times (IL) -
June 8, 2018
June 8, 2018 | Chicago Sun-Times (IL) | Mitchell Armentrout

A day after after a Chicago police officer fatally shot Maurice Granton
Bronzeville foot chase, loved ones gathered to remember the slain man — and to question why he
was killed.

M aurice Granton Jr. in the back during a

"He was running away," Granton's sister Joanna Varnado before about 100 people gathered
T hursday evening for a vigil at the shooting scene near 47th Street and Prairie. "Why is it OK for a
police officer to shoot someone who is running away?"

Click to view slideshow.

But Chicago police officials say Granton pulled a gun on tactical officers who were trying to stop
him during a narcotics investigation about 8:15 p.m. Wednesday in the 300 block of West 47th
Street. One officer opened fire during an "armed encounter" after Granton pulled a gun, according
to a police statement.

Granton died at the University of Chicago Medicine trauma center within the hour. T he Cook
County medical examiner's office ruled Thursday that he suffered a fatal gunshot wound to the
back.

Shortly after the shooting, CPD spokesman Anthony Guglielmi tweeted a photo of a gun allegedly
recovered from Granton at the scene, and on Thursday — "in response to claims that offender
was unarmed and the weapon was planted by CPD officers" — Guglielmi took the unusual step of
releasing surveillance video purporting to show Granton handling the gun prior to the police
encounter.

UPDAT E; Video prior to last night's officer involved shooting shows offender holding what turned
out to be a semi automatic handgun that was later recovered by officers.
pic.twitter.com/6nT I90CFsm

— Anthony Guglielmi (@AJGuglielmi) June 7, 2018

Officers recovered a gun at the scene of a police-involved shooting Wednesday in Bronzeville,
according to a police spokesman. | Anthony Guglielmi/T witter

Still, relatives, friends and neighborhood residents have questioned that narrative, leading to tense
confrontations with officers in the shooting’s aftermath, and skepticism at Thursday’s vigil.

“I want justice for my brother,” Varnado said.

M aurice Granton | Facebook photo
M aurice Granton

Family members said they don’t believe Granton had a gun, and they claimed the officer fired 12
rounds — because he was “mad” because a sergeant had hurt his ankle during the chase — hitting
Granton at least six times.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability, which investigates shootings by officers, said the officer
fired three times, and that the agency will release body-camera footage within 60 days.

Granton, a father of two young daughters, previously had been convicted of robbery and theft,
court records show. Family members and friends described him as a loving person.

"He was silly, goofy, fun," Varnado said. "He cared about his family. Everything was about family."

T he officer who opened fire is on desk duty for 30 days, per CPD policy.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Sun-Times Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

 
Suit filed in fatal Chicago police shooting caught - Associated Press
State Wire: Illinois (IL) - July 30, 2018
July 30, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

CHICAGO (AP) — A lawsuit has been filed in a fatal Chicago police shooting days after the release
of body-camera video showing an officer firing at a 24-year-old as he sought to hop a fence.

Lawyers filed the suit Monday in Cook County for Maurice Granton
daughters. It names the city and the officer as defendants in the June 6 shooting.

M aurice Granton Jr.'s girlfriend and two baby

It says a bullet severed Granton's spine as he grabbed the fence with both hands. It alleges
Granton wasn't a threat then and the officer could have used a stun gun.

Authorities say Granton fled as drug investigators tried to question him. A gun was found about 20
feet (6 meters) from the fence. Police say it had been fired.

City lawyers hadn't seen the lawsuit and declined comment.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
Dozens of friends and family gathered around the gravesite as Maurice Granton’s black casket with silver detailing

was slowly lowered into the ground. Six white gloves were placed on top, a sign of respect from the former South

Side gang he was once part of. Now, the family must wait for the release of body-camera footage from June 6,

when a Chicago police officer fired three shots at Granton —one fatally striking the 24-year-old’s spine —as he ran

away. 

More than 70 people attended Granton’s funeral Monday morning at the Metropolitan Apostolic Community

Church in Bronzeville. Some wore red or white shirts with sayings on the back such as “Long Live Maurice” or “Fly

high angel” with his face printed on the front. As they walked up to his open casket decorated with a large bouquet

of plastic red roses and orange flowers, some leaned in and kissed his cheek while others cried out and leaned

onto one another for support. 

The Rev. Chris Harris encouraged members of the audience to hug each other and offered them opportunities to

give Granton standing ovations. Despite the controversy surrounding Granton’s death, the funeral remained

uplifting. 

“He pulled him out. Not the police. Not the bullet. God,” Harris said. 

Among the crowd were Granton’s two daughters, both under 2 and too young to understand what had happened.

Their mother, Tayshia, who declined to be interviewed, held her oldest daughter as she told the audience, “He gave

me these two pretty little girls. …Despite of everything, I still love you, and I’ll always love you.” 

As the service ended, a large organ played in the background as people funneled out of the church. The mourners

piled into about 20 cars and followed the hearse about 30 minutes south to Mount Hope Cemetery. A group of

young people leaned out the windows of their cars, cheering and holding one of the red shirts that memorialized

Granton. 

Granton’s father, Maurice Granton Sr., said, “He was a good kid. He liked to be goofy, silly, make people laugh all

the time. He was a protector, too, of his sisters.” 

After the body camera tapes are released, Granton Sr. said, “we can proceed from there.” 

On June 2, Granton walked out of a hospital with a graze wound near his right eye. Police had found him lying in an

alley in Chatham on the South Side, authorities said, but he had refused to cooperate. 

Four days later and barely 4 miles away in Bronzeville, police say Granton started running from plainclothes

officers working a drug investigation. He ignored their orders to stop, pulled a gun and was shot by one of the

officers, according to a statement from the Police Department. 

Granton was pronounced dead at the University of Chicago Medical Center, the same hospital where he was

treated for the graze wound. He had been shot in the back, according to the Cook County medical examiner's

office. 

officer and Granton. 

The Police Department released surveillance video it said shows Granton holding a gun sometime before he was

shot by the officer in the 4700 block of South Prairie Avenue. The department also tweeted a photo of a 9 mm

handgun it said was recovered. The department did not say whether there was an exchange of gunfire between the

Ziff Sistrunk, the family spokesman, said the family has hired lawyers, and they are preparing to file a lawsuit

against the city within the next 10 days. In the meantime, they’re gearing up for a protest in about two weeks in

front of the mayor’s office to demand the release of the body cam tapes. 

“Mr. Maurice Sr. is the person that’s going to review (the camera footage) —not Black Lives Matter. …So these

other groups need to push back off this family for a minute,” Sistrunk said. “Right now, we just need the mayor and

this city to step up.” 

Denise Granton, one of Granton’s aunts, said the family is hurting right now and trying to make sure his daughters

are provided for, but everyone is still confused by what led to his death. 

“We want to wait to see when the body cam’s released to see what is actually shown because we don’t know.

We’re only going by what they’ve said, and what they’ve said has not made sense.” 

pfry@chicagotribune.com 

Twitter @paigexfry 

Credit: Paige Fry 
 
 

Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

 

 
June 19--Dozens of friends and family gathered around the gravesite as Maurice Granton's black casket with silver

detailing was slowly lowered into the ground. Six white gloves were placed on top, a sign of respect from the

former South Side gang he was once part of. Now, the family must wait for the release of body-camera footage

from June 6, when a Chicago police officer fired three shots at Granton -- one fatally striking the 24-year-old's spine

-- as he ran away. 

More than 70 people attended Granton's funeral Monday morning at the Metropolitan Apostolic Community

Church in Bronzeville. Some wore red or white shirts with sayings on the back such as "Long Live Maurice" or "Fly

high angel" with his face printed on the front. As they walked up to his open casket decorated with a large bouquet

of plastic red roses and orange flowers, some leaned in and kissed his cheek while others cried out and leaned

onto one another for support. 

The Rev. Chris Harris encouraged members of the audience to hug each other and offered them opportunities to

give Granton standing ovations. Despite the controversy surrounding Granton's death, the funeral remained

uplifting. 

"He pulled him out. Not the police. Not the bullet. God," Harris said. 

Among the crowd were Granton's two daughters, both under 2 and too young to understand what had happened.

Their mother, Tayshia, who declined to be interviewed, held her oldest daughter as she told the audience, "He gave

me these two pretty little girls. ... Despite of everything, I still love you, and I'll always love you." 

As the service ended, a large organ played in the background as people funneled out of the church. The mourners

piled into about 20 cars and followed the hearse about 30 minutes south to Mount Hope Cemetery. A group of

young people leaned out the windows of their cars, cheering and holding one of the red shirts that memorialized

Granton. 

office. 

Granton's father, Maurice Granton Sr., said, "He was a good kid. He liked to be goofy, silly, make people laugh all

the time. He was a protector, too, of his sisters." 

After the body camera tapes are released, Granton Sr. said, "we can proceed from there." 

READ MORE: Man killed by Chicago police had been shot in an attack days earlier in a South Side alley » 

On June 2, Granton walked out of a hospital with a graze wound near his right eye. Police had found him lying in an

alley in Chatham on the South Side, authorities said, but he had refused to cooperate. 

Four days later and barely 4 miles away in Bronzeville, police say Granton started running from plainclothes

officers working a drug investigation. He ignored their orders to stop, pulled a gun and was shot by one of the

officers, according to a statement from the Police Department. 

Granton was pronounced dead at the University of Chicago Medical Center, the same hospital where he was

treated for the graze wound. He had been shot in the back, according to the Cook County medical examiner's

The Police Department released surveillance video it said shows Granton holding a gun sometime before he was

shot by the officer in the 4700 block of South Prairie Avenue. The department also tweeted a photo of a 9 mm

handgun it said was recovered. The department did not say whether there was an exchange of gunfire between the

officer and Granton. 

Ziff Sistrunk, the family spokesman, said the family has hired lawyers, and they are preparing to file a lawsuit

against the city within the next 10 days. In the meantime, they're gearing up for a protest in about two weeks in

front of the mayor's office to demand the release of the body cam tapes. 

"Mr. Maurice Sr. is the person that's going to review (the camera footage) -- not Black Lives Matter. ... So these

other groups need to push back off this family for a minute," Sistrunk said. "Right now, we just need the mayor and

this city to step up." 

Denise Granton, one of Granton's aunts, said the family is hurting right now and trying to make sure his daughters

are provided for, but everyone is still confused by what led to his death. 

"We want to wait to see when the body cam's released to see what is actually shown because we don't know. We're

only going by what they've said, and what they've said has not made sense." 

Company / organization:

Name: University of Chicago Medical Center; NAICS: 622110; Name: Black Lives

pfry@chicagotribune.com 

CREDIT: By Paige Fry 
 
 

Fatal Chicago Police Shooting Of Maurice Granton - Atlanta Daily World
(GA) - June 7, 2018
June 7, 2018 | Atlanta Daily World (GA) | Bruce C.T. Wright

Conflicting accounts were surrounding a police shooting that killed a Black man in Chicago
Wednesday night, with some suggesting officers were trying to cover it up.

What police described to the Chicago Tribune as "an armed encounter between the offender and
police" in the Bronzeville section of the city was actually an execution, with officers shooting
M aurice Granton, Jr., in the back as he ran away, according to reports on social media.
M aurice Granton

Adding to the confusion was police claiming that Granton had a gun and pointed it at them before
running, but Granton's family has said the gun that was "recovered" did not belong to him.

"Since when does running validate somebody getting shot?"Joanna Varnado, Granton's sister,
asked rhetorically. "I don't understand that. You're not being offensive, you're being defensive."

Granton, 24, was the father of two daughters.

"I just want to know what the real story is," Varnado told the T ribune. "If it was misconduct, I want
justice. My brother was 24 years old. He loved his girls. T hat's all he lived for, was his kids."

T he mother of Granton's daughters also said he did not carry a gun.

"He didn't have no gun on him. He has two kids to live for, so he wouldn't do anything dumb. He
come home to his kids every night," T ayshia Shaw told CBS Chicago. "T hat's not his personality.
He wouldn't even chance his life doing that, knowing he has two very young kids to come home
to."

According to a USA Today report from 2016, "Black people have been killed in police chases at a
rate nearly three times higher than everyone else."

If reports of Granton being shot in the back turn out to be true, the officer(s) who shot him could
be indicted for murder charges, if historical precedence is any indication. Former North Charleston
Police Officer Michael Slager was convicted and sentenced to 20 years in prison for shooting
Walter Scott in the back. At the time of the shooting, Scott was fleeing on foot.

T he Chicago Police Department has long has a reputation for police brutality and overall
corruption, including some new wrongful convictions that were reported by the Associated Press
just this week.

"We've had all kinds of police corruption, we've had police torture cases, but we've never had so
many cases where there is clear evidence that police actually set people up for crimes they didn't

commit," Marshall Hatch, a minister and activist in Chicago, told the AP on Sunday.

SEE ALSO:

Biking While Black: Chicago Police Profiling African-Americans

Chicago T o Pay Record Settlement For Wrongful Conviction

43 Black Men And Boys Killed By Police

46 photos Launch gallery

43 Black Men And Boys Killed By Police

1. Anthony Lamar Smith, 24

Source:Getty 1 of 46

2. Ramarley Graham, 18

Source:Getty 2 of 46

3. Manuel Loggins Jr., 31

Source:Getty 3 of 46

4. T rayvon Martin, 17

Source:Getty 4 of 46

5. Wendell Allen, 20

Source:Getty 5 of 46

6. Kendrec McDade, 19

Source:Getty 6 of 46

7. Larry Jackson Jr., 32

Source:Getty 7 of 46

8. Jonathan Ferrell, 24

Source:Getty 8 of 46

9. Jordan Baker, 26

Source:Getty 9 of 46

10. Victor White lll, 22

Source:Getty 10 of 46

11. Dontre Hamilton, 31

Source:Getty 11 of 46

12. Eric Garner, 43

Source:Getty 12 of 46

13. John Crawford lll, 22

Source:Getty 13 of 46

14. Michael Brown, 18

Source:Getty 14 of 46

15. Ezell Ford, 25

Source:Getty 15 of 46

16. Dante Parker, 36

Source:Getty 16 of 46

17. Kajieme Powell, 25

Source:Getty 17 of 46

18. Laquan McDonald, 17

Source:Getty 18 of 46

19. Akai Gurley, 28

Source:Getty 19 of 46

20. T amir Rice, 12

Source:Getty 20 of 46

21. Rumain Brisbon, 34

Source:Getty 21 of 46

22. Jerame Reid, 36

Source:Getty 22 of 46

23. Charly Keunang, 43

Source:Getty 23 of 46

24. Tony Robinson, 19

Source:Getty 24 of 46

25. Walter Scott, 50

Source:Getty 25 of 46

26. Freddie Gray, 25

Source:Getty 26 of 46

27. Brendon Glenn, 29

Source:Getty 27 of 46

28. Samuel DuBose, 43

Source:Getty 28 of 46

29. Christian T aylor, 19

Source:Getty 29 of 46

30. Jamar Clark, 24

Source:Getty 30 of 46

31. Mario Woods, 26

Source:Getty 31 of 46

32. Quintonio LeGrier, 19

Source:Getty 32 of 46

33. Gregory Gunn, 58

Source:Getty 33 of 46

35. Alton Sterling, 37

Source:Getty 35 of 46

36. Philando Castile, 32

Source:Getty 36 of 46

37. Terrence Sterling, 31

Source:Getty 37 of 46

38. Terence Crutcher, 40

Source:Getty 38 of 46

39. Keith Lamont Scott, 43

Source:Getty 39 of 46

40. Alfred Olango, 38

Source:Getty 40 of 46

41. Jordan Edwards, 15

Source:Getty 41 of 46

42. Stephon Clark, 22

42 of 46

43. Danny Ray T homas, 34

43 of 46

44 of 46

44. DeJuan Guillory, 27

A post shared by Hood Digest (@hood_digest) onMar 29, 2018 at 11:17am PDT

45. DeJuan Guillory, 27

46. DeJuan Guillory, 27

45 of 46

46 of 46

Skip ad

Continue reading 43 Black Men And Boys Killed By Police

43 Black Men And Boys Killed By Police

Fatal Chicago Police Shooting Of Maurice Granton
published on newsone.com

M aurice Granton Jr. Disputed By Victim's Family was originally

Copyrig ht, 2018, Atlanta Daily World. All Rights Reserved.

 
The Latest: Chicago police say man shot was doing - Associated Press
State Wire: Illinois (IL) - June 7, 2018
June 7, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

CHICAGO (AP) — T he Latest on the fatal shooting of a man by a Chicago police officer (all times
local):

Chicago Police say the man fatally shot by an officer on the city's South Side was taking part in a
suspected illegal drug transaction moments before the shooting. Department spokesman
Anthony Guglielmi (goo-lee-EHL'-mee) says the department dispatched officers to the scene after
other officers watching the area via a surveillance camera spotted 24-year-old Maurice Granton
M aurice Granton
Jr. taking part in what appeared to be an illegal drug transaction.

When officers arrived, police say Granton ran and "produced a weapon." Officers ordered him to
stop running. After the officer shot him, police recovered what they say was the gun Granton was
carrying and Guglielmi later posted on T witter a photograph of the gun. He also says that there is
evidence the gun was fired at the scene.

2:30 p.m.

___

12:25 p.m.

Chicago police have posted a photograph of a handgun they say a man was carrying when he was
fatally shot by an officer on the city's South Side.

Department spokesman Anthony Guglielmi (goo-lee-EHL'-mee) posted the photo on T witter
T hursday.

He says the weapon was recovered at the scene of the Wednesday night shooting death of 24-
year-old Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr.

Granton's relatives have expressed doubts that the weapon belonged to him, and say they want to
know why Granton was shot as he ran away.

Police say Granton was shot during a narcotics investigation. T hey say when officers approached
on foot, he ran. T hey say when the officers ordered him to stop, he "produced a weapon,"
prompting an officer to shoot him.

Granton was pronounced dead at University of Chicago Hospital.

___

6:40 a.m.

Relatives of a man who was fatally shot by a Chicago police officer during a narcotics investigation
say they want answers about why the confrontation turned deadly.

T he shooting happened Wednesday night in the Bronzeville neighborhood on the city's South Side.

Police say the suspect fled on foot when officers approached. A police statement early T hursday
says officers told the man to stop and he "produced a weapon," so the officer shot him. T he man
was taken to University of Chicago Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability and the Cook County medical examiner's office identified
him as Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr.

T he 24-year-old man's sister, Joanna Varnado, asked T he Chicago T ribune: "Since when does
running validate somebody getting shot?"

At the hospital, police and security blocked people from getting inside as tensions flared.

___

11:35 p.m.

Chicago police say an officer has fatally shot a suspect after an armed confrontation.

Sgt. Rocco Alioto says the incident occurred around 8:10 p.m. in the Bronzeville neighborhood on
the city's South Side. He says the suspect fled on foot when officers approached. After the officer
shot the suspect, the man was taken to University of Chicago Hospital, where he was pronounced
dead.

Department spokesman Anthony Guglielmi (goo-lee-EHL'-mee) tweeted earlier that the suspect's
gun was recovered by police. He added that the officer may have broken an ankle during the
confrontation.

Alioto said the officer has been placed on 30-day administrative leave due to department policy.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability was investigating at the scene.

___

T his version of the story corrects the 11:35 p.m. item spelling of Alioto.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Lawyers demand release of video in fatal police - Associated Press State
Wire: Illinois (IL) - June 9, 2018
June 9, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

CHICAGO (AP) — Lawyers for the family of a man fatally shot by a Chicago police officer are
demanding the release of body camera footage of the shooting.

Attorneys Antonio Romanucci and Andrew Stroth said Saturday the video will factor into whether
the family of Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr. will file a lawsuit.

Granton was killed Wednesday during an alleged "armed confrontation" with police officers. T he
day after the shooting, police released surveillance video allegedly showing Granton holding a gun
while in the area before the shooting.

Authorities say the officers were attempting to question Granton after spotting him taking part in
an alleged illegal drug transaction. An autopsy revealed he was shot in the back.

Police recovered a gun at the scene they say Granton was carrying. T hey say there is evidence the
gun had been fired. T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability, which is investigating the shooting,
said the officer fired three shots.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 


 
June 07--A Chicago police officer shot and killed a man in Bronzeville on Wednesday night after he refused to stop

running away and pulled a gun, authorities said. 

"An armed encounter between the offender and police ensued," the Police Department said in a statement. "An

officer discharged his weapon, fatally striking the offender." 

The department released no other details, including whether there was an exchange of gunfire and how many

shots were fired. It said a weapon was recovered at the scene in the 4700 block of South Prairie Avenue.. 

The shooting around 8:10 p.m. sparked tense confrontations between police and neighbors on the block and

between police and family at the University of Chicago Medical Center, where Maurice Granton Jr., 24, was

pronounced dead. 

His family said they doubted the police version of how the father of two young daughters was killed. 

"Since when does running validate somebody getting shot?" said Granton's sister, Joanna Varnado. "I don't

understand that. You're not being offensive, you're being defensive." 

She didn't believe the gun police said they found was his. 

years old. He loved his girls. That's all he lived for, was his kids." 

Tension between police and family 

"I just want to know what the real story is," Varnado said. "If it was misconduct, I want justice. My brother was 24

Granton was pronounced dead at 8:41 p.m., about a half hour after he was shot, but relatives at the hospital were

not told for several hours as tensions steadily grew. 

Family and friends first gathered in the waiting room, then were told to move outside, where a hospital official

addressed the growing crowd. He told them there were three gunshot victims in the emergency room and they

were waiting for identification. 

Around 10:30 p.m., family and hospital officials began loudly arguing about where they could wait. Authorities tried

to usher the crowd into another lobby nearby, but they insisted on staying outside the emergency room lobby. 

"(Expletive) that. (Expletive) trying to make us move. (Expletive) the police. They shot him," one man said. "We

waiting, bro. We waiting this out. Our family here is shot. Fighting for his life." 

Security outside the emergency room grew to more than a dozen officers, from both the Chicago and University of

Chicago police departments. The officers formed a line in front of the entrance and said the area was on lockdown. 

Police eventually let Varnado and a few other family members inside. Around 11:45 p.m., Varnado walked back out.

She stood next to Tayshia Shaw, who has two daughters with Granton, a 1-year-old and another who has not yet

had her first birthday. 

"No, he's not," Shaw said. "No ..." 

Shaw dropped to the sidewalk, lying on her left side. Varnado sat cross-legged with Shaw's head in her lap, and the

women tried to comfort each other as they cried. 

Several others in the group yelled at police and hospital staff as the line of officers continued to guard the

entrance to the hospital's new trauma center, which opened on May 2. The center treated 274 trauma patients in

its first four weeks, many of them gunshot victims. 

Back at the scene of the shooting, near the 47th Street Green Line "L" stop, crowds of people gathered at the liquor

store just outside the crime tape. 

Some remained in the area while officers updated members of the media. They shouted questions, asking police

where Glanton's wounds were. Others yelled at officers who walked by, asking them how they justified the

Frederick Hill, who lives in the area, said he was walking to the liquor store at 47th Street and Indiana Avenue when

he saw paramedics loading a man into an ambulance. 

Hill said all four corners were crowded with people who were upset and yelling. "People were crying. They wanted

shooting. 

to fight." 

'But then this happened' 

Shaw was a freshman and Granton was a sophomore when the two met at Walter Henri Dyett High School for the

Arts in Washington Park. They became friends and, about five years later, started dating, Shaw said. Her favorite

things about him were his personality and his smile. 

Even though they were no longer a couple, they saw each other often and were both involved in their daughters'

lives, Shaw said. 

Varnado said she and Granton grew up with different foster parents, and there were years when they saw each

other only occasionally, at court-supervised appointments. Varnado said the two reconnected as adults. She

described her brother as silly and playful, crazy about his kids and impossible to stay mad at. 

"He's not a bad person," she said. "He always plays. ... He could turn any bad situation into a good one. He's a

family man. That's all he wanted, because he never had one." 

In the summer, Granton could be found playing basketball at a number of neighborhood courts. He was a particular

fan of the Golden State Warriors' Stephen Curry, Shaw said. He didn't listen to much rap, favoring older R&B such

as Gladys Knight and Luther Vandross. He sang to his kids all the time. His older daughter liked a Drake song,

"God's Plan," so he'd dance around with her and sing along, Shaw said. 

Cheese pizza was his favorite food, typically Home Run Inn bought frozen from Aldi. Shaw said she picked one up

for him Wednesday and was supposed to cook it that night. "But then this happened." 

Records show Granton has an arrest history, but his family said that was all in the past. 

"We all grew up in the system," Varnado said. "We didn't have our parents. You are a product of your environment.

When he was lashing out, he didn't know who he was, but he turned it around when he had those girls. 

"It's still unbelievable," she said. "We're still just trying to intake all this, process it, deal with it, our emotions (are)

all over the place. We are talking about him, we are laughing." 

The Civilian Office of Police Accountability is investigating the shooting, and the officer will be placed on

administrative leave, as is routine. 

COPA chief Sydney Roberts issued a statement on social media early Thursday morning, stating COPA

investigators were talking to witnesses on the scene. 

hleone@chicagotribune.com 

mabuckley@chicagotribune.com 

Twitter @mabuckley88 

CREDIT: By Hannah Leone and Madeline Buckley 
 
 

Autopsy: Chicago man killed by police was shot in - Associated Press
State Wire: Illinois (IL) - August 8, 2018
August 8, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

CHICAGO (AP) — An autopsy by the Cook County medical examiner says a Chicago man killed by
police in June died from a single shot in the back that entered his spine and lungs.

M aurice Granton's family has claimed since the shooting that he was shot in the back.
M aurice Granton

Police body-camera footage shows the 24-year-old Granton running across a vacant lot and
darting onto a wrought iron fence with one leg raised. As both his hands reach for the top of the
fence, an officer can be seen raising his gun. Authorities say Granton fled as drug investigators
tried to question him.

A lawsuit filed against the city of Chicago on behalf of Granton's girlfriend and children says
Granton wasn't a threat and the officer could have used a stun gun.

Police say a gun found about 20 feet (6 meters) from the fence had been fired.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
Dozens of friends and family gathered around the gravesite as Maurice Granton's black casket with silver detailing

was slowly lowered into the ground. Six white gloves were placed on top, a sign of respect from the former South

Side gang he once was part of. Now the family must wait for the release of body-camera footage from June 6,

when a Chicago police officer fired three shots at Granton -- one fatally striking the 24-year-old's spine -- as he ran

away.  

More than 70 people attended Granton's funeral Monday morning at the Metropolitan Apostolic Community

Church in Bronzeville. Some wore red or white shirts with sayings on the back such as "Long Live Maurice" or "Fly

high angel" with his face printed on the front. As they walked up to his open casket decorated with a large bouquet

of plastic red roses and orange flowers, some leaned in and kissed his cheek while others cried out and leaned

onto one another for support. 

The Rev. Chris Harris encouraged members of the audience to hug each other and offered them opportunities to

give Granton standing ovations. Despite the controversy surrounding Granton's death, the funeral remained

uplifting. 

"He pulled him out. Not the police. Not the bullet. God," Harris said. 

Among the crowd were Granton's two daughters, both under 2 and too young to understand what had happened.

Their mother, Tayshia, who declined to be interviewed, held her oldest daughter as she told the audience, "He gave

me these two pretty little girls. ... Despite of everything, I still love you, and I'll always love you." 

As the service ended, a large organ played in the background as people funneled out of the church. The mourners

piled into about 20 cars and followed the hearse about 30 minutes south to Mount Hope Cemetery. A group of

young people leaned out the windows of their cars, cheering and holding one of the red shirts that memorialized

Granton. 

Granton's father, Maurice Granton Sr., said, "He was a good kid. He liked to be goofy, silly, make people laugh all

the time. He was a protector, too, of his sisters." 

After the body camera recordings are released, Granton Sr. said, "we can proceed from there." 

On June 2, Granton walked out of a hospital with a graze wound near his right eye. Police had found him lying in an

alley in Chatham on the South Side, authorities said, but he refused to cooperate. 

Four days later and barely 4 miles away in Bronzeville, police say Granton started running from plainclothes

officers working a drug investigation. He ignored their orders to stop, pulled a gun and was shot by one of the

officers, according to a statement from the Police Department. 

Granton was pronounced dead at the University of Chicago Medical Center, where he had been treated for the

graze wound. He had been shot in the back, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office. 

The Police Department released surveillance video it said shows Granton holding a gun sometime before he was

shot by the officer in the 4700 block of South Prairie Avenue. The department also tweeted a photo of a 9 mm

handgun it said was recovered. The department did not say whether there was an exchange of gunfire between the

officer and Granton. 

Ziff Sistrunk, the family spokesman, said the family has hired lawyers, and it is preparing to file a lawsuit against

the city within the next 10 days. In the meantime, family members are gearing up for a protest in about two weeks

in front of the mayor's office to demand the release of the bodycam recordings. 

"Mr. Maurice Sr. is the person that's going to review (the camera footage) -- not Black Lives Matter. ... So these

other groups need to back off this family for a minute," Sistrunk said. "Right now, we just need the mayor and this

city to step up." 

Denise Granton, one of Granton's aunts, said the family is hurting right now and trying to make sure his daughters

are provided for, but everyone is still confused by what led to his death. 

"We want to wait to see when the bodycam's released to see what is actually shown because we don't know. We're

only going by what they've said, and what they've said has not made sense." 

Company / organization:

Name: University of Chicago Medical Center; NAICS: 622110; Name: Black Lives

---------- 

pfry@chicagotribune.com 

CREDIT: By Paige Fry, Chicago Tribune 
 
 

Video shows Maurice Granton, Jr. holding a gun - Chicago Sun-Times
(IL) - June 8, 2018
June 8, 2018 | Chicago Sun-Times (IL) | Mitchell Armentrout, Lizzie Schiffman Tufano, Lizzie Schiffman Tufano

M aurice Granton, Jr. holding a semi-
Chicago Police released a video Thursday that shows Maurice Granton
automatic handgun hours before he was fatally shot by a police officer Wednesday night in
Bronzeville, according to CPD spokesman Anthony Guglielmi.

Guglielmi shared the video in a tweet T hursday.

UPDAT E; Video prior to last night’s officer involved shooting shows offender holding what turned
out to be a semi automatic handgun that was later recovered by officers.
pic.twitter.com/6nT I90CFsm

— Anthony Guglielmi (@AJGuglielmi) June 7, 2018

Officers were on a narcotics mission in the 300 block of East 47th Street when officials say
Granton pulled a gun on tactical officers who were trying to stop him about 8:15 p.m. Wednesday.
One officer opened fire during the “armed encounter,” according to a police statement, striking
Granton in the back.

Paramedics took Granton to the University of Chicago Medicine trauma center, and he was
pronounced dead at 8:41 p.m., police said. An autopsy Thursday found Granton suffered a gunshot
wound to his back, according to the medical examiner's office.

Guglielmi shared the video, as well as a photo of a gun allegedly recovered from Granton at the
scene, “in response to claims that offender was unarmed and the weapon was planted by CPD
officers,” he said.

Officers recovered a gun at the scene of a police-involved shooting Wednesday in Bronzeville,
according to a police spokesman. | Anthony Guglielmi/T witter

RELAT ED

• Man, 24, fatally shot by Chicago police officer in Bronzeville: CPD

M aurice Granton 
• Family looks for answers in CPD officer's fatal shooting of Maurice Granton

Family members who held a vigil for Granton Thursday evening said they don't believe he had a
gun, and they claimed the officer fired 12 rounds — because he was "mad" because a sergeant
had hurt his ankle during the chase — hitting Granton at least six times.

Vigil for Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr., who was fatally shot by Chicago Police. | Rick Majewski/For the Sun-

T imes

Guglielmi said on T witter Wednesday that an officer at the scene “sustained [a] possible broken
ankle during [the] confrontation.”

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability, which investigates shootings by officers, said the officer
fired three times. Before Guglielmi’s tweet, the agency had promised to release body-camera
footage within 60 days.

Granton, a father of two young daughters, previously had been convicted of robbery and theft,
court records show. Family members and friends described him as a loving person.

"He was silly, goofy, fun," Granton's sister Joanna Varnado, said at the vigil T hursday. "He cared
about his family. Everything was about family."

T he officer who opened fire is on desk duty for 30 days, per CPD policy.

At a Thursday night vigil on 47th and Prairie, Shaumanika Jones (right) comforts Teresa Richardson
(center), who is Maurice Granton
Wednesday night during a Bronzeville foot chase. | Rick Majewski/For the Sun-T imes

M aurice Granton Jr.’s sister. Granton was fatally shot by a Chicago Police officer

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Sun-Times Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

 

 
The father of a Chicago man who was fatally shot in the back by a police officer last month said he believes video

he watched Wednesday shows his son killed in cold blood. 

Authorities showed body camera and surveillance video of the June 6 incident to the family before releasing it to

the media. 

arrestable offense." 

"It's the most terrible feeling you can ever feel, to see one of your children killed, and especially by a policeman who

is supposed to serve and protect him," Maurice Granton Sr. said. "Whatever (my son) was doing, it was an

Maurice Granton Jr., 24, never had a gun in his hand, his family and attorneys said. Police said just after the

shooting that Granton had a weapon and there was an armed encounter with officers. 

Videos show Granton running from one officer, eluding that officer by quickly scaling a fence that borders a gravel

parking lot, and being shot while on or getting down from a second fence seconds later. Within four minutes, police

stand over a pistol about 20 to 30 feet from his body. 

Four shots are heard in a video recorded by an officer who could not scale the first fence. The first shot heard

comes four seconds before a trio of shots. 

Police have said the other officer fired three times, but that officer's body camera does not have audio at the time

Granton drops from the fence and to the ground. Chicago police would not comment on the fourth shot. 

The officer who killed Granton was placed on routine administrative leave for 30 days in June, authorities said at

the time. 

to police. 

The police accountability office is investigating the incident and on Wednesday released seven videos, three audio

clips, a response report that summarizes an interview with the officer who fired shots and a brief incident report. 

"Why isn't this man charged with a crime?" Granton's father asked. 

Granton was shot after he ran from a plainclothes officer in the South Side neighborhood of Bronzeville, according

"Responding officers commanded him to stop, at which point the man produced a weapon and an armed

encounter between the offender and police ensued. An officer discharged his weapon, fatally striking the offender,"

police said at the time. 

CNN reached out to police on Wednesday but they referred requests to the civilian oversight board. The Civilian

Office of Police Accountability wouldn't comment on an ongoing investigation. 

In a statement, COPA said it has "a duty to preserve investigative integrity and be prudent in its release to not

compromise the investigation. COPA's commitment to transparency also includes the release of all available

audio" and Office of Emergency Management &Communications and 911 recordings. 

The Cook County Medical Examiner's Office determined Granton was shot in the back, CNN affiliate WLS reported.

CNN has reached out to the medical examiner's office. 

Granton's father said his son was not the type of person who would confront police officers with a weapon. 

Family attorney Antonio Romanucci called on authorities to produce evidence of an armed encounter. 

"If there wasn't one, then we want justice, with discipline, termination, and justice in the courts," he said. 

 
 

The Latest: Chicago police say man shot was doing - Associated Press
State Wire: Illinois (IL) - June 7, 2018
June 7, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

CHICAGO (AP) — T he Latest on the fatal shooting of a man by a Chicago police officer (all times
local):

Chicago Police say the man fatally shot by an officer on the city's South Side was taking part in a
suspected illegal drug transaction moments before the shooting. Department spokesman
Anthony Guglielmi (goo-lee-EHL'-mee) says the department dispatched officers to the scene after
other officers watching the area via a surveillance camera spotted 24-year-old Maurice Granton
M aurice Granton
Jr. taking part in what appeared to be an illegal drug transaction.

When officers arrived, police say Granton ran and "produced a weapon." Officers ordered him to
stop running. After the officer shot him, police recovered what they say was the gun Granton was
carrying and Guglielmi later posted on T witter a photograph of the gun. He also says that there is
evidence the gun was fired at the scene.

2:30 p.m.

___

12:25 p.m.

Chicago police have posted a photograph of a handgun they say a man was carrying when he was
fatally shot by an officer on the city's South Side.

Department spokesman Anthony Guglielmi (goo-lee-EHL'-mee) posted the photo on T witter
T hursday.

He says the weapon was recovered at the scene of the Wednesday night shooting death of 24-
year-old Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr.

Granton's relatives have expressed doubts that the weapon belonged to him, and say they want to
know why Granton was shot as he ran away.

Police say Granton was shot during a narcotics investigation. T hey say when officers approached
on foot, he ran. T hey say when the officers ordered him to stop, he "produced a weapon,"
prompting an officer to shoot him.

Granton was pronounced dead at University of Chicago Hospital.

___

6:40 a.m.

Relatives of a man who was fatally shot by a Chicago police officer during a narcotics investigation
say they want answers about why the confrontation turned deadly.

T he shooting happened Wednesday night in the Bronzeville neighborhood on the city's South Side.

Police say the suspect fled on foot when officers approached. A police statement early T hursday
says officers told the man to stop and he "produced a weapon," so the officer shot him. T he man
was taken to University of Chicago Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability and the Cook County medical examiner's office identified
him as Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr.

T he 24-year-old man's sister, Joanna Varnado, asked T he Chicago T ribune: "Since when does
running validate somebody getting shot?"

At the hospital, police and security blocked people from getting inside as tensions flared.

___

11:35 p.m.

Chicago police say an officer has fatally shot a suspect after an armed confrontation.

Sgt. Rocco Alioto says the incident occurred around 8:10 p.m. in the Bronzeville neighborhood on
the city's South Side. He says the suspect fled on foot when officers approached. After the officer
shot the suspect, the man was taken to University of Chicago Hospital, where he was pronounced
dead.

Department spokesman Anthony Guglielmi (goo-lee-EHL'-mee) tweeted earlier that the suspect's
gun was recovered by police. He added that the officer may have broken an ankle during the
confrontation.

Alioto said the officer has been placed on 30-day administrative leave due to department policy.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability was investigating at the scene.

___

T his version of the story corrects the 11:35 p.m. item spelling of Alioto.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Chicago police officer fatally shoots man; family - Associated Press
News Service, The - June 7, 2018
June 7, 2018 | Associated Press News Service, The

CHICAGO (AP) — A Chicago police officer fatally shot a 24-year-old man who authorities said
pulled a gun while running away, prompting questions from the man's family about why the
encounter turned deadly.

Sgt. Rocco Ailoto said the "armed confrontation" occurred around 8:10 p.m. Wednesday in the
Bronzeville neighborhood on the city's South Side as officers conducted a narcotics investigation.
He said the suspect fled on foot when officers approached. Ailoto said in a statement that officers
told the man to stop and he "produced a weapon," so the officer shot him. T he man was taken to
University of Chicago Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability and the Cook County medical examiner's office identified
M aurice Granton Jr. Police have not named the officer involved.
the man shot as Maurice Granton

Granton's sister, Joanna Varnado, asked, "Since when does running validate somebody getting
shot?"

At the hospital, police and security officers blocked people from getting inside as tensions flared.
Some yelled at police and hospital staff.

Police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi tweeted that police recovered the suspect's gun. He added
that an officer may have broken an ankle during the confrontation. In a later statement, police said
a sergeant was taken to a hospital for treatment of an injury sustained during the pursuit.

T he Chicago Tribune reports that Granton's family expressed doubts that the gun belonged to the
father of two young daughters.

"I just want to know what the real story is," Varnado said. "If it was misconduct, I want justice. My
brother was 24 years old. He loved his girls. T hat's all he lived for, was his kids."

Police haven't said how many shots were fired. An autopsy was planned. Ailoto said the officer has
been placed on 30-day administrative leave in line with department policy.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability was investigating.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Associated Press All Rights Reserved

 

 
Headnote 

POLITICS 

among themselves. 

"Black Caucus, Black Caucus 

They don't really care 

Black Caucus, Black Caucus 

Always backs the mayor 

Black Caucus, Black Caucus 

They don't vote with us 

Black Caucus, Black Caucus 

Now your time is up! 

Now your time is up! 

Now your time is up!" 

After protesters were ejected from a fund-raiser for the City Council's Black Caucus, the aldermen had a little fun

So chanted a cluster of young people gathered outside the Chicago Aldermanic Black Caucus's annual fund-raiser

at a Loop cocktail lounge last Wednesday evening. Just an hour before, the Civilian Office of Police Accountability

had released body camera footage of the June 6 police shooting of 24-year-old Maurice Granton Jr. Inside the

lounge, more activists from Black Lives Matter, BYP100, and other groups confronted black City Council members

about their support of the Chicago Police Department. Ardamis Sims of GoodKidsMadCity and Assata's Daughters

interrupted remarks by 34th Ward alderman Carrie Austin shouting, "No cop academy! No cop academy!," in protest

of the city's plan to build a $95 million police training facility on the west side. 

"Shut up," Austin bellowed in response. The fund-raiser attendees erupted in cheers of approval. "Goodbye!," she

shouted as Sims was pushed out of the lounge by security. "We're here to have a good time; if you want to protest

take it outside." 

"They must not know we got gangsters in here," 20th Ward alderman Willie Cochran chimed in, egging on the

crowd. Last year Cochran-a retired police officer who's been indicted on fraud, bribery, and extortion charges-

announced he wouldn't be running for reelection. 

"If anybody else wanna protest you better take it outside," Austin said, laughing. "'Cause I guarantee you ain't seen

no gangsters like this city's aldermen." 

sisters of Maurice Granton Jr. 

All of this was caught on video by other protesters inside the lounge. Watching in the crowd outside were also the

Joanna Varnado, Granton Jr.'s 31-year-old sister, said she'd come to the protest that night in the hopes of hearing a

response from aldermen about the killing of her brother. Since the incident, she said, her family hadn't heard from

any elected officials. "I just wanted some answers," she said. "Everybody knows my brother was murdered, and I

wanna know how [the aldermen] feel." 

Her impression, she said, was that "they didn't care. Some of them were drunk. They was in there partying, eating,

dancing, laughing." It stung especially hard, she said, because these were black officials. "These are our people.

When you see stuff like that it's like, Is there gonna be justice?" 

Varnado said she appreciated the support of the youth protesting the event. "They showed us love and respect for

my brother-it felt good," she said. 

Sims, a 21-year-old from Washington Park, said he wanted to interrupt the gathering of aldermen because "they

were talking about stuff that didn't relate to us, our people, our community." Sims remained at the protest,

chanting, and helping with the die-in outside after being ejected. Watching the video of Austin and Cochran's

comments later, he said he v;as hurt. For the aldermen to call themselves gangsters seemed particularly crude to

him given the violence in the city. He says it was a reminder that young people need to be registered to vote and to

be self-reliant: "Use your head, think, 'cause we all we got." 

Austin didn't return calls for comment. Cochran, reached at his ward office last Thursday, laughed when asked

what he meant when he referred to the aldermen as "gangsters." 

"It was a joke," he explained. 

@mdoukmas 
 
 


 
June 08--Maurice Granton walked out of a hospital last weekend with a graze wound near his right eye, refusing to

cooperate with police who found him lying in an alley in Chatham on the South Side, authorities said. 

Days later, barely 4 miles away in Bronzeville, police say Granton started running from plainclothes officers

working a drug investigation Wednesday night. He ignored their orders to stop, pulled a gun and was shot by one

of the officers, according to a statement from the Police Department. 

Granton, 24, was pronounced dead at the University of Chicago Medical Center, the same hospital that treated his

graze wound last Saturday. He had been shot in the back, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office. 

The Police Department released a video it said shows Granton holding a gun sometime before he was shot by the

officer in the 4700 block of South Prairie Avenue. The department also tweeted out a photo of a 9 mm handgun it

said was recovered. The department did not say whether there was an exchange of gunfire between the officer and

Granton. 

Officers in one of the department's Strategic Decision Support Centers had spotted Glanton in a drug transaction

while watching a police surveillance camera, according to police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi. The officers

alerted others on patrol, and they responded to 47th Street and Prairie Avenue to confront Glanton, he said. 

It's unusual for the department to release video related to a police shooting investigation in its early stages. "This

video is ... being released in response to claims that offender was unarmed and the weapon was planted by CPD

officers," Guglielmi said. 

Granton's sister, Joanna Varnado, is among those who don't believe he had a gun. "I just want to know what the

real story is," she said of her brother, who has two young daughters. "If it was misconduct, I want justice. My

brother was 24 years old. He loved his girls. That's all he lived for, was his kids." 

Granton has two convictions on his record for robbery and theft, and several arrests for trespassing and drug

possession. But his family said Granton was not a violent man. "Since when does running validate somebody

getting shot?" Varnado said. "I don't understand that. You're not being offensive, you're being defensive." 

The shooting around 8:10 p.m. sparked tense confrontations between police and family at the hospital. Granton

was pronounced dead there about half an hour after he was shot, but relatives said they were not told for several

hours. 

were waiting for identification. 

Family and friends first gathered in the waiting room, then were told to move outside, where a hospital official

addressed the growing crowd. He told them there were three gunshot victims in the emergency room and they

Around 10:30 p.m., family and hospital officials began loudly arguing about where they could wait. Authorities tried

to usher the crowd into another lobby nearby, but they insisted on staying outside the emergency room lobby. 

"(Expletive) that. (Expletive) trying to make us move. (Expletive) the police. They shot him," one man said. "We

waiting, bro. We waiting this out. Our family here is shot. Fighting for his life." 

Security outside the emergency room grew to more than a dozen officers, from both the Chicago and University of

Chicago police departments. The officers formed a line in front of the entrance and said the area was on lockdown. 

Police eventually let Varnado and a few other family members inside. Around 11:45 p.m., Varnado walked back out.

She stood next to Tayshia Shaw, who has two daughters with Granton, a 1-year-old and another who has not yet

had her first birthday. 

"No, he's not," Shaw said. "No ..." 

Shaw dropped to the sidewalk, lying on her left side. Varnado sat cross-legged with Shaw's head in her lap, and the

women tried to comfort each other as they cried. 

The hospital released a statement Thursday defending its handling of the crowd, saying it "always has been

committed to and focused on the safety and privacy of patients and their families. Like other hospitals across the

country, UChicago Medicine has well-established and comprehensive policies and procedures in place designed to

protect patients, their families and staff." 

Back at the scene of the shooting, near the 47th Street Green Line "L" stop, crowds of people gathered at the liquor

store just outside the crime tape. They shouted questions, asking police where Granton's wounds were. Others

yelled at officers who walked by, asking them how they justified the shooting. 

Frederick Hill, who lives in the area, said he was walking to the liquor store at 47th Street and Indiana Avenue when

he saw paramedics loading a man into an ambulance. Hill said all four corners were crowded with people who

were upset and yelling. "People were crying. They wanted to fight." 

Shaw was a freshman and Granton was a sophomore when the two met at Dyett High School for the Arts in

Washington Park. Even though they were no longer a couple, they saw each other often and were both involved in

their daughters' lives, she said. 

Varnado said she and Granton grew up with different foster parents, and there were years when they saw each

other only occasionally, at court-supervised appointments. Varnado said the two reconnected as adults. She

described her brother as crazy about his kids and impossible to stay mad at. 

"He's not a bad person," she said. "He could turn any bad situation into a good one. He's a family man. That's all he

wanted, because he never had one." 

in 2016, records show. 

His family said Granton's criminal behavior was in the past with the birth of his two daughters. His last arrest was

"We all grew up in the system," Varnado said. "We didn't have our parents. You are a product of your environment.

When he was lashing out, he didn't know who he was, but he turned it around when he had those girls." 

The Civilian Office of Police Accountability was investigating the shooting, and the officer will be placed on

administrative leave, as is routine. 

Chicago Tribune's Elyssa Cherney and Jeremy Gorner contributed 

hleone@chicagotribune.com 

mabuckley@chicagotribune.com 

Twitter @mabuckley88 

CREDIT: By Hannah Leone, Madeline Buckley and William Lee 
 
 

Chicago officer fatally shoots armed black man - Associated Press News
Service, The - June 7, 2018
June 7, 2018 | Associated Press News Service, The

CHICAGO (AP) — A Chicago police officer fatally shot a 24-year-old black man who authorities said
pulled a gun while running away, prompting questions from the man's family about why the
encounter turned deadly.

Sgt. Rocco Alioto said the "armed confrontation" Wednesday evening on the city's South Side
happened as officers conducted a narcotics investigation. He said the suspect fled on foot when
officers approached. Alioto said in a statement that officers told the man to stop and he "produced
a weapon," so the officer shot him.

M aurice Granton Jr., died of a gunshot wound to the back, the Cook
T he man, later identified as Maurice Granton
County Medical Examiner's office said T hursday. T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability, which
is investigating the shooting, said late Thursday that preliminary evidence shows there were three
shots discharged from the officer's firearm.

Police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi said that officers involved in a narcotics investigation were
watching the area Wednesday evening through one of a number of surveillance cameras mounted
on poles throughout the city. T hey saw Granton taking part in what appeared to be an illegal drug
transaction and dispatched officers to the scene.

Guglielmi posted on T witter a photograph of what he said was Granton's weapon found at the
scene. He said that there is physical evidence that the gun had been fired. No officer was shot
although a sergeant may have suffered a broken ankle during the confrontation.

T he police department has not released the name or race of the officer involved in Wednesday
night's shooting. Alioto said the officer has been placed on 30-day administrative leave in line with
department policy.

T he shooting of Granton comes as police have faced intense scrutiny over allegations of excessive
force involving black suspects. White officer Jason Van Dyke has been charged with first-degree
murder in the 2014 shooting of black teenager Laquan McDonald. He has pleaded not guilty.
Release of a video of the shooting of McDonald a year after it happened prompted outrage and
calls for Mayor Rahm Emanuel to resign.

Chicago police released more details of the Wednesday shooting after Granton's sister, Joanna
Varnado, suggested that the officer had used excessive force.

"Since when does running validate somebody getting shot?" she asked. T he Chicago T ribune
reported that Granton's family expressed doubts that the gun belonged to Granton, the father of
two young daughters.

"I just want to know what the real story is," Varnado said. "If it was misconduct, I want justice. My
brother was 24 years old. He loved his girls. T hat's all he lived for, was his kids."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Associated Press All Rights Reserved

 
Video released in fatal Chicago shooting - Breeze-Courier, The
(Taylorville, IL) - July 26, 2018
July 26, 2018 | Breeze-Courier, The (Taylorville, IL)

CHICAGO (AP) &mdash; A Chicago investigative agency released body-camera video Wednesday
showing the fatal police shooting of a 24-year-old man who family lawyers say was unarmed at
the moment he was shot in the back.

M aurice Granton Jr. grabs the top of a

One officer fired from a sidewalk on June 6 just as Maurice Granton
wrought-fence around a vacant lot to pull himself over. He falls, writhing on the ground, seemingly
unable to move his legs. An autopsy later revealed he was shot in the back. Officers earlier that
evening tried to question Granton as part of a drug investigation, but he fled, authorities have said.
Police said they recovered a gun Granton had been carrying and that there&rsquo;s evidence it had
been fired before he reached the fence. &nbsp; T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability, or
COPA, which investigates police shootings, posted the video on its website Wednesday. Other
video showing officers chasing Granton earlier are also included, as is radio traffic between
officers. &nbsp; T here&rsquo;s no sound for the first 30 seconds of the video of the shooting.
When the sound comes on, the officer keeps his gun trained on Granton and tells another officer
there&rsquo;s a weapon on the ground some 20 feet away. &ldquo;Go get the weapon. Get the
weapon,&rdquo; he says. Minutes later, a crowd can be seen beginning to gather in the Bronzeville
neighborhood on the city&rsquo;s South Side, some people yelling at police and others frantically
calling Granton&rsquo;s name.

Family attorney Andrew M. Stroth argued the video showing the shooting contradicts the initial
police narrative that there was an armed confrontation right before the shooting.

&ldquo;It shows an unarmed black man running away from police, and police don&rsquo;t have a
right to shoot and kill in that situation,&rdquo; Stroth said.&nbsp; &ldquo;We continue to have
young black men unjustifiably shot by police. When is it going to stop?&rdquo; T he police
department issued a brief statement later Wednesday saying it is &ldquo;fully cooperating&rdquo;
with the investigation of the shooting.

Chicago has a troubled history of police shootings. T he city erupted in protest in 2015 after the
release of a video showing white police officer Jason Van Dyke shooting black 17-year-old Laquan
McDonald 16 times in 2014. Van Dyke was charged with murder.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Breeze-Courier, The (Taylorville, IL), All Rights Reserved

 
Chicago officer fatally shoots suspect who had - Associated Press State
Wire: Illinois (IL) - June 7, 2018
June 7, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

CHICAGO (AP) — A Chicago police officer fatally shot a 24-year-old man who authorities said
pulled a gun while running away, prompting questions from the man's family about why the
encounter turned deadly.

Sgt. Rocco Ailoto said the "armed confrontation" occurred around 8:10 p.m. Wednesday in the
Bronzeville neighborhood on the city's South Side as officers conducted a narcotics investigation.
He said the suspect fled on foot when officers approached. T he man was taken to University of
Chicago Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability and the Cook County medical examiner's office identified
him as Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr.

Granton's sister, Joanna Varnado, asked: "Since when does running validate somebody getting
shot?"

At the hospital, police and security officers blocked people from getting inside as tensions flared.
Some yelled at police and hospital staff.

Police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi tweeted that police recovered the suspect's gun. He added
that an officer may have broken an ankle during the confrontation. In a later statement, police said
a sergeant was taken to a hospital for treatment of an injury sustained during the pursuit.

T he Chicago Tribune reports that Granton's family expressed doubts that the gun belonged to the
father of two young daughters.

"I just want to know what the real story is," Varnado said. "If it was misconduct, I want justice. My
brother was 24 years old. He loved his girls. T hat's all he lived for, was his kids."

Police haven't said how many shots were fired. An autopsy was planned. Ailoto said the officer has
been placed on 30-day administrative leave in line with department policy.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability was investigating.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
The family of a man fatally shot last month by a Chicago police officer in an incident captured on video filed a

lawsuit Monday alleging he was shot in the back while unarmed.  

The video, made public last week by police oversight officials, showed the tactical officer fatally shooting Maurice

Granton Jr., 24, as he tried to scale a fence while running from police June 6 in the Bronzeville neighborhood. 

The lawsuit alleges that Granton cannot be seen carrying a gun or other weapon in the police body camera footage

released by authorities. 

He posed no threat of harm to police or the public, it contended. 

At a news conference Monday, attorney Antonio Romanucci, who represents LaTayshia Shaw, the mother of

Granton's two young children, criticized the limited information released so far by authorities, saying it allows

police and other city officials to control the narrative about the shooting. 

"He was unarmed when the foot chase began, and we know for a fact he was unarmed when the chase ended,"

Romanucci said. "It's what we cannot see on video that the city will not tell us. Had better training been in place,

Maurice would still be here today." 

At the time of the shooting, the Police Department released a statement saying Granton had "produced a weapon"

before an "armed encounter" with police took place. It also initially released limited video footage it said showed

Granton holding a gun shortly before the shooting. The department also tweeted a photo of a 9 mm handgun it

said was recovered from the shooting scene. 

"If you're going to release any evidence, then release it all or don't release any," Romanucci told reporters at his law

office. "They can control the narrative ... to shape public opinion to make this look like this is about something that

it's not when's it's really about transparency and getting to the truth and finding out what happened." 

The lawsuit also complained that 1 1/2 years after the U.S. Department of Justice found widespread problems with

Chicago police, the department still has not developed a policy on foot pursuits. 

Bill McCaffrey, a spokesman for the city's Law Department, declined to comment on the lawsuit, saying he had not

seen a copy. 

The lawsuit, filed in Cook County Circuit Court, names the city and Officer Sheldon Thrasher as defendants. 

Documents released last week by the Civilian Office of Police Accountability identified Thrasher as the officer who

fatally shot Granton. Records show the officer joined the department in 2013. 

COPA, the city agency that investigates police-involved shootings, released the video last week after Granton's

family viewed the footage. 

The shooting remains under investigation. 

Police Department officials said both Thrasher and a second officer involved in the shooting have returned to

active duty after taking a mandatory 30-day leave following the incident. 

Romanucci said Thrasher fired at least three shots, striking Granton at least once in the back and severing his

spinal cord. 

The lawsuit alleges that as a crowd emerged at the scene, Thrasher, who is African-American, could be heard

"mocking" Granton, telling onlookers, "You see your homie right there." 

Granton was writhing in pain on the video, according to the lawsuit. He was pronounced dead a short time later at

the University of Chicago Medical Center. 

and fired at the officer before he was shot. 

At the time of Granton's fatal shooting, police said he ignored orders to stop during a foot chase, pulled a weapon

A use-of-force report filed by Thrasher -- released by COPA along with other audio and video evidence -- said he

reported to supervisors that Granton was armed with a semi-automatic pistol and fired on him. 

Police Department officials said the Wentworth District tactical officers were in the area conducting a narcotics

investigation when they were directed to the 300 block of East 47th Street. 

Surveillance footage showed Granton and others milling around under the CTA Green Line before a police car

pulled up and the men scattered. 

The body camera from one officer captured him saying, "Come here, man," and then chasing Granton, who jumped

a wooden fence, leaving the view of that officer's body camera. That officer abandoned the chase, shouting in pain.

The view from his camera indicated he was limping away. 

But his camera captured the sound of a single gunshot, then a pause, followed by three more shots in quick

The body camera footage posted from the officer who appears to have opened fire did not include audio at the

succession. 

time of the shooting. 

That video showed Granton running across a vacant lot and darting onto a wrought iron fence with one leg raised.

As both hands reached for the top of the fence, the officer can be seen raising his gun. The footage then showed

Granton immediately fall from the fence, stumble to his left a few feet and then drop to the ground, writhing in pain. 

Granton was shot in the back, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office. Authorities have not said

how many times he was shot. 

Granton's girlfriend did not speak at the news conference, but his father, Maurice Sr., wearing a red T-shirt with his

son's image emblazoned on it with the message "Heaven Couldn't Wait In Loving Memory, Maurice Granton 1994-

2018," told reporters he was "living every parent's nightmare." 

"The Chicago Police Department claims this incident was an armed confrontation," said Granton, his hands

clasped in front as he spoke. "Nowhere on the videos do you see my son armed, and nowhere on the videos do you

CAPTION: Photo: (Maurice) Granton (Jr.) ; Photo: Maurice Granton Sr. attends Monday's news conference on a

lawsuit in the police shooting of his son. ANTONIO PEREZ/TRIBUNE 

see a confrontation. My son was running away." 

---------- 

jgorner@chicagotribune.com 

CREDIT: By Jeremy Gorner, Chicago Tribune 
 
 


 
Maurice Granton walked out of a hospital last weekend with a graze wound near his right eye, refusing to

cooperate with police who found him lying in an alley in Chatham on the South Side, authorities said.  

Days later, barely 4 miles away in Bronzeville, police say Granton started running from plainclothes officers

working a drug investigation Thursday night. He ignored their orders to stop, pulled a gun and was shot by one of

the officers, according to a statement from the Police Department. 

Granton, 24, was pronounced dead at the University of Chicago Medical Center, the same hospital that treated his

graze wound last Saturday. He had been shot in the back, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office. 

The Police Department released a video it said shows Granton holding a gun sometime before he was shot by the

officer in the 4700 block of South Prairie Avenue. The department also tweeted out a photo of a 9 mm handgun it

said was recovered. The department did not say whether there was an exchange of gunfire between the officer and

Granton. 

Officers in one of the department's Strategic Decision Support Centers had spotted Glanton in a drug transaction

while watching a police surveillance camera, according to police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi. The officers

alerted others on patrol, and they responded to 47th Street and Prairie Avenue to confront Glanton, he said. 

It's unusual for the department to release video related to a police shooting investigation in its early stages. "This

video is ... being released in response to claims that offender was unarmed and the weapon was planted by CPD

officers," Guglielmi said. 

Granton's sister, Joanna Varnado, is among those who don't believe he had a gun. "I just want to know what the

real story is," she said of her brother, who has two young daughters. "If it was misconduct, I want justice. My

brother was 24 years old. He loved his girls. That's all he lived for, was his kids." 

Granton has two convictions on his record for robbery and theft, and several arrests for trespassing and drug

possession. But his family said Granton was not a violent man. "Since when does running validate somebody

getting shot?" Varnado said. "I don't understand that. You're not being offensive, you're being defensive." 

The shooting around 8:10 p.m. sparked tense confrontations between police and family at the hospital. Granton

was pronounced dead there about half an hour after he was shot, but relatives said they were not told for several

hours. 

were waiting for identification. 

Family and friends first gathered in the waiting room, then were told to move outside, where a hospital official

addressed the growing crowd. He told them there were three gunshot victims in the emergency room and they

Around 10:30 p.m., family and hospital officials began loudly arguing about where they could wait. Authorities tried

to usher the crowd into another lobby nearby, but they insisted on staying outside the emergency room lobby. 

"(Expletive) that. (Expletive) trying to make us move. (Expletive) the police. They shot him," one man said. "We

waiting, bro. We waiting this out. Our family here is shot. Fighting for his life." 

Security outside the emergency room grew to more than a dozen officers, from both the Chicago and University of

Chicago police departments. The officers formed a line in front of the entrance and said the area was on lockdown. 

Police eventually let Varnado and a few other family members inside. Around 11:45 p.m., Varnado walked back out.

She stood next to Tayshia Shaw, who has two daughters with Granton, a 1-year-old and another who has not yet

had her first birthday. 

"No, he's not," Shaw said. "No ..." 

Shaw dropped to the sidewalk, lying on her left side. Varnado sat cross-legged with Shaw's head in her lap, and the

women tried to comfort each other as they cried. 

The hospital released a statement Thursday defending its handling of the crowd, saying it "always has been

committed to and focused on the safety and privacy of patients and their families. Like other hospitals across the

country, UChicago Medicine has well-established and comprehensive policies and procedures in place designed to

protect patients, their families and staff." 

Back at the scene of the shooting, near the 47th Street Green Line "L" stop, crowds of people gathered at the liquor

store just outside the crime tape. They shouted questions, asking police where Granton's wounds were. Others

yelled at officers who walked by, asking them how they justified the shooting. 

Frederick Hill, who lives in the area, said he was walking to the liquor store at 47th Street and Indiana Avenue when

he saw paramedics loading a man into an ambulance. Hill said all four corners were crowded with people who

were upset and yelling. "People were crying. They wanted to fight." 

Shaw was a freshman and Granton was a sophomore when the two met at Dyett High School for the Arts in

Washington Park. Even though they were no longer a couple, they saw each other often and were both involved in

their daughters' lives, she said. 

Varnado said she and Granton grew up with different foster parents, and there were years when they saw each

other only occasionally, at court-supervised appointments. Varnado said the two reconnected as adults. She

described her brother as crazy about his kids and impossible to stay mad at. 

"He's not a bad person," she said. "He could turn any bad situation into a good one. He's a family man. That's all he

His family said Granton's criminal behavior was in the past with the birth of his two daughters. His last arrest was

"We all grew up in the system," Varnado said. "We didn't have our parents. You are a product of your environment.

When he was lashing out, he didn't know who he was, but he turned it around when he had those girls." 

The Civilian Office of Police Accountability was investigating the shooting, and the officer will be placed on

wanted, because he never had one." 

in 2016, records show. 

administrative leave, as is routine. 

---------- 

hleone@chicagotribune.com 

mabuckley@chicagotribune.com 

CAPTION: Photo: Emily Mallory, left, hugs Fermilla Whatley before a Thursday vigil for Maurice Granton, who was

fatally shot by Chicago police during a foot pursuit Wednesday night. ; Photo: Precious Richardson lights candles

Thursday for Granton, who was her uncle. ; JOHN J. KIM/CHICAGO TRIBUNE PHOTOS ; Photo: (Maurice) Granton 

CREDIT: By Hannah Leone, Madeline Buckley and William Lee, Chicago Tribune; Chicago Tribune's Elyssa Cherney

and Jeremy Gorner contributed. 
 
 


 
A video released Wednesday shows a black man was fatally shot by Chicago police as he tried to scale a fence. A

lawyer for the man’s family said the video also shows that Maurice Granton, 24, was unarmed. “If you’re a young

man in the city of Chicago, do not run from the Chicago police,” said attorney Antonio Romanucci. “Maurice did not

have a weapon in his hand when he was shot.” The video does show officers talking about a weapon nearby, and a

gun was found about 20 feet away from Granton. The Chicago Police Department has said that Granton fired at

officers before he was shot. The Chicago Tribune reports that officer Sheldon Thrasher, who is African-American,

shot Granton. He and another officer at the scene are back on active duty following a 30-day leave. The shooting is

still being investigated. 
 
 


 
A South Side man fatally shot by a Chicago police officer in June died from a single gunshot wound to the back

that penetrated his spine and lungs, according to autopsy results released on Tuesday. 

The findings come a little more than a week after attorneys for Maurice Granton Jr.’s family filed a lawsuit against

the city, claiming officers overreacted when they shot him. 

The autopsy by the Cook County medical examiner’s office confirmed claims made by the family’s attorney that

Granton, 24, was shot in the back. After piercing the right side of Granton’s back, the bullet penetrated his vertebra

and his left lung, according to the report by Stephanie Powers, an assistant Cook County medical examiner who

performed the autopsy the morning after Granton’s death. 

READ: Attorneys say video shows man did not have a gun when a Chicago cop fatally shot him last month » 

The bullet traveled through Granton’s torso from right to left and in an upward angle, the report stated. His death

was ruled a homicide, meaning his death came at the hands of another person. 

A toxicology report found marijuana in Granton’s system at the time of his death. 

Chicago police have previously said the Wentworth District tactical officers were in the area conducting a

narcotics investigation when they were directed to the 300 block of East 47th Street. Surveillance footage showed

Granton and others milling around under the CTA Green Line before a police car pulled up and the men scattered. 

Body camera footage, released by the Civilian Office of Police Accountability late last month, captured an officer

telling Granton “Come here, man,” and then chasing Granton, who jumped a wooden fence, leaving the view of that

officer’s body camera. That officer abandoned the chase, shouting in pain. The view from his camera indicated he

was limping away. 

succession. 

But his camera captured the sound of a single gunshot, then a pause, followed by three more shots in quick

READ: Family of man fatally shot by Chicago cop files wrongful death lawsuit against city » 

The body camera footage posted from the officer who appears to have opened fire did not include audio at the

time of the shooting. That video showed Granton running across a vacant lot and darting onto a wrought iron

fence with one leg raised. As both hands reached for the top of the fence, the officer can be seen raising his gun.

The footage then showed Granton fall from the fence, stumble to his left a few feet and then drop to the ground,

writhing in pain. 

Granton was taken to an area hospital where he was later pronounced dead. 

The suit, filed on behalf of the mother of Granton’s two young children, claimed Granton cannot be seen carrying a

gun or other weapon in the bodycam footage, adding that he posed no threat of harm to police or the public. 

The case remains under investigation by COPA. 

wlee@chicagotribune.com 

Twitter @MidNoirCowboy 

Credit: William Lee 
 


Family of Maurice Granton Jr., shot dead by CPD, - Chicago Sun-Times
(IL) - July 30, 2018
July 30, 2018 | Chicago Sun-Times (IL) | Mitch Dudek

T he family of an apparently unarmed man who was shot and killed by Chicago police filed a
wrongful death lawsuit Monday, a week after police bodycam video of shooting was released.

M aurice Granton Jr., 24, was fatally shot as he tried to jump a fence in a vacant lot on June 6
M aurice Granton
during a foot chase with Chicago police in the Bronzeville neighborhood. T he video appears to
show Granton grabbing the fence with both hands, without a gun.

T he lawsuit alleges Granton didn’t pose an imminent threat to police despite the Chicago Police
Department stating an “armed confrontation” led to the shooting.

“What we don’t know is when and where and with whom the armed confrontation took place,” said
Antonio Romanucci, a lawyer for the family, at a news conference Monday.

Four, possibly five shots are heard on video recordings, Romanucci said.

“T here is the question of the first shot fired and where it came from whose gun it was from,”
Romanucci said, adding that information gleaned from police reports indicates Granton fired a gun
at officers but provides no other details.

Romanucci said the city shared all video of the shooting but hasn’t given other details, like where
spent bullet shells were found at the shooting scene.

“It’s what we cannot see on video that the city will not tell us. Had better training been in place,
Maurice would still be here today,” he said.

A police spokesman didn’t immediately return a message Monday seeking clarification on if
Granton fired at police.

T he lawsuit comes on heels of the release of a proposed consent decree to move forward with
police reforms under the supervision of a federal judge.

“T his agreement was too late for Maurice,” Romanucci said.

Video taken from an officer's body camera shows that as Granton was jumping onto a wrought
iron fence, officer Sheldon Thrasher — who is African American — opened fire.

Moments earlier, Granton had ditched the pursuit of another officer by jumping a different fence,
body camera video shows.

As Granton reached the vacant lot, the officer “waited for Maurice in what appears to be an
ambush,” Romanucci said.

Granton, shot three three times in the back, collapsed.

After he's shot, Granton can be seen writhing on the ground, bleeding for several minutes as
officers swarm the area without giving him aid. Within minutes, dozens of onlookers gather and
begin yelling at police.

An officer instructs several of his colleagues to guard a pistol in the vacant lot, laying several yards
away from where Granton was when he was shot, video shows.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability, which is charged with investigating police shootings,
released video of the shooting July 25 — several days before the 60 day deadline in which it was
required to do so.

It was not the only visual evidence released.

Shortly after the shooting the CPD released a video claiming it showed Granton with a gun, as well
as photo of a gun allegedly recovered from Granton at the scene "in response to claims that
offender was unarmed and the weapon was planted by CPD officers," police spokesman Anthony
Guglielmi said at the time.

Romanucci said the move was an unfair and incomplete portrayal of the shooting that was tailor-
made by police to fit their version of events, and that it hurt Granton’s family.

“T hey can control the narrative that they want to shape public opinion to make this look like this is
about something that it’s not when it’s really about transparency and getting to the truth and
finding out what happened,” Romanucci said.

Officers were on a narcotics mission about 8:15 p.m. on June 6 when, officials said, Granton pulled a
gun on tactical officers who were trying to stop him. One officer opened fire during the "armed
encounter," according to a statement police released shortly after the shooting.

Granton, a father of two girls, previously had been convicted of robbery and theft, court records
show.

Granton’s father, Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Sr., said Monday that lawsuit wasn’t about money.

“T his is about justice for my son, and all the other people’s sons who go through this,” he said.

T hrasher was placed on desk duty for 30 days after the shooting. He’s now back on patrol. COPA is
still investigating.

RELAT ED:

Video released of fatal police shooting of Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr.

Police say video shows Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr. holding gun before fatal shootings

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Sun-Times Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

 

 
July 25--The city's police oversight agency on Wednesday afternoon plans to show video to the relatives of a man

fatally shot by a Chicago police officer last month. 

Police had said that Maurice Granton, 24, ran from plainclothes tactical officers working a drug investigation on

June 6. He ignored their orders to stop, pulled a gun and was shot by one of the officers, police said. 

The family, which at the time of the shooting had disputed police claims that Granton had a gun, is scheduled to

view the video at 1 p.m. at the Civilian Office of Police Accountability, which investigates police shootings, said

attorney Andrew Stroth, who represents Granton's family with Antonio Romanucci. 

The Police Department released a limited video shortly after the shooting that it said showed Granton holding a

gun sometime before he was shot by the officer in the Bronzeville neighborhood. The department also tweeted out

a photo of a 9 mm handgun it said was recovered. 

"This video is ... being released in response to claims that offender was unarmed and the weapon was planted by

CPD officers," police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi said at the time. 

Officers in one of the department's nerve centers -- officially known as Strategic Decision Support Centers -- had

spotted Granton in a drug transaction while watching video from a police surveillance camera, according to

Guglielmi. They alerted officers on patrol who responded to 47th Street and Prairie Avenue to confront Granton, he

said. 

Granton was pronounced dead at the University of Chicago Medical Center. He had been shot in the back,

according to the Cook County medical examiner's office. 

Granton had been treated at the same hospital just days before for a graze wound near his right eye. He refused to

cooperate with police after officers found him lying in an alley in the South Side's Chatham neighborhood,

authorities said then. 

Granton had two young daughters, according to his sister, Joanna Varnado, who said at the time of his fatal

shooting that she did not believe he had a gun. 

"I just want to know what the real story is," she said . "If it was (police) misconduct, I want justice. My brother was

24 years old. He loved his girls. That's all he lived for was his kids." 

Granton had two convictions for robbery and theft and several arrests on suspicion of trespassing and drug

possession. 

arrest was in 2016, records show. 

But his family said that with the birth of his two daughters, Granton's criminal behavior was in the past. His last

"Since when does running validate somebody getting shot?" Varnado said at the time. "I don't understand that.

You're not being offensive, you're being defensive." 

The shooting happened around 8:10 p.m. June 6 and sparked tense confrontations between police and the family

at the hospital. Granton was pronounced dead there about half an hour after he was shot, but relatives said they

were not told for several hours. 

Family and friends first gathered in the waiting room, then were told to move outside, where a hospital official

addressed the growing crowd. He told them there were three gunshot victims in the emergency room and they

were waiting for identification. 

emergency room lobby. 

Around 10:30 p.m., family members and hospital officials began loudly arguing about where they could wait.

Authorities tried to usher members of the crowd into another lobby nearby, but they insisted on staying outside the

Security outside the emergency room grew to more than a dozen officers, from both the Chicago and University of

Chicago police departments. The officers formed a line in front of the entrance and said the area was on lockdown. 

Police eventually let Varnado and a few other family members inside. Around 11:45 p.m., Varnado walked back out.

She stood next to Tayshia Shaw, who has two daughters with Granton, a 1-year-old and another who has not yet

had her first birthday. 

"No, he's not," Shaw said. "No ..." 

Shaw dropped to the sidewalk, lying on her left side. Varnado sat cross-legged with Shaw's head in her lap, and the

women tried to comfort each other as they cried. 

The hospital later released a statement defending its handling of the crowd, saying it "always has been committed

to and focused on the safety and privacy of patients and their families. Like other hospitals across the country,

UChicago Medicine has well-established and comprehensive policies and procedures in place designed to protect

Company / organization:

Name: University of Chicago Medical Center; NAICS: 622110; Name: University of

patients, their families and staff." 

dhinkel@chicagotribune.com 

asweeney@chicagotribune.com 

jgorner@chicagotribune.com 

CREDIT: By Dan Hinkel, Annie Sweeney and Jeremy Gorner 
 
 

Chicago police officer fatally shoots man; family - Associated Press
News Service, The - June 7, 2018
June 7, 2018 | Associated Press News Service, The

CHICAGO (AP) — A Chicago police officer fatally shot a 24-year-old man who authorities said
pulled a gun while running away, prompting questions from the man's family about why the
encounter turned deadly.

Sgt. Rocco Ailoto said the "armed confrontation" occurred around 8:10 p.m. Wednesday in the
Bronzeville neighborhood on the city's South Side as officers conducted a narcotics investigation.
He said the suspect fled on foot when officers approached. Ailoto said in a statement that officers
told the man to stop and he "produced a weapon," so the officer shot him. T he man was taken to
University of Chicago Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability and the Cook County medical examiner's office identified
M aurice Granton Jr. Police have not named the officer involved.
the man shot as Maurice Granton

Granton's sister, Joanna Varnado, asked, "Since when does running validate somebody getting
shot?"

At the hospital, police and security officers blocked people from getting inside as tensions flared.
Some yelled at police and hospital staff.

Police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi tweeted that police recovered the suspect's gun. He added
that an officer may have broken an ankle during the confrontation. In a later statement, police said
a sergeant was taken to a hospital for treatment of an injury sustained during the pursuit.

T he Chicago Tribune reports that Granton's family expressed doubts that the gun belonged to the
father of two young daughters.

"I just want to know what the real story is," Varnado said. "If it was misconduct, I want justice. My
brother was 24 years old. He loved his girls. T hat's all he lived for, was his kids."

Police haven't said how many shots were fired. An autopsy was planned. Ailoto said the officer has
been placed on 30-day administrative leave in line with department policy.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability was investigating.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Associated Press All Rights Reserved

 
The Latest: Chicago police tweet gun photo after - Associated Press
State Wire: Illinois (IL) - June 7, 2018
June 7, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

CHICAGO (AP) — T he Latest on the fatal shooting of a man by a Chicago police officer (all times
local):

12:25 p.m.

Chicago police have posted a photograph of a handgun they say a man was carrying when he was
fatally shot by an officer on the city's South Side.

Department spokesman Anthony Guglielmi (goo-lee-EHL'-mee) posted the photo on T witter
T hursday.

He says the weapon was recovered at the scene of the Wednesday night shooting death of 24-
year-old Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr.

Granton's relatives have expressed doubts that the weapon belonged to him, and say they want to
know why Granton was shot as he ran away.

Police say Granton was shot during a narcotics investigation. T hey say when officers approached
on foot, he ran. T hey say when the officers ordered him to stop, he "produced a weapon,"
prompting an officer to shoot him.

Granton was pronounced dead at University of Chicago Hospital.

___

6:40 a.m.

Relatives of a man who was fatally shot by a Chicago police officer during a narcotics investigation
say they want answers about why the confrontation turned deadly.

T he shooting happened Wednesday night in the Bronzeville neighborhood on the city's South Side.

Police say the suspect fled on foot when officers approached. A police statement early T hursday
says officers told the man to stop and he "produced a weapon," so the officer shot him. T he man
was taken to University of Chicago Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability and the Cook County medical examiner's office identified
him as Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr.

T he 24-year-old man's sister, Joanna Varnado, asked T he Chicago T ribune: "Since when does
running validate somebody getting shot?"

At the hospital, police and security blocked people from getting inside as tensions flared.

___

11:35 p.m.

Chicago police say an officer has fatally shot a suspect after an armed confrontation.

Sgt. Rocco Ailoto says the incident occurred around 8:10 p.m. in the Bronzeville neighborhood on
the city's South Side. He says the suspect fled on foot when officers approached. After the officer
shot the suspect, the man was taken to University of Chicago Hospital, where he was pronounced
dead.

Department spokesman Anthony Guglielmi (goo-lee-EHL'-mee) tweeted earlier that the suspect's
gun was recovered by police. He added that the officer may have broken an ankle during the
confrontation.

Ailoto said the officer has been placed on 30-day administrative leave due to department policy.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability was investigating at the scene.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
June 07--Chicago police shot and killed a man Wednesday night after what police described as an "armed

confrontation" on the South Side. 

The man has been identified as Maurice Granton Jr., said Civilian Office of Police Accountability spokesman

Ephraim Eaddy. Granton's family said he is 24 and has two young daughters. 

Around 8:10 p.m., officers conducting a narcotics investigation in the 300 block of East 47th Street in the

Bronzeville neighborhood approached Granton, who ran from them, said Chicago police Sgt. Rocco Alioto. 

Officers chased him, and an "armed confrontation" ensued, Alioto said. 

An officer fired a gun, hitting Granton, he said. Police did not say where the man was shot, or elaborate on the

circumstances surrounding the encounter. 

He was taken to University of Chicago Medical Center, where he was later pronounced dead. 

"Since when does running validate somebody getting shot?" said Granton's sister, Joanna Varnado. "I don't

understand that. You're not being offensive, you're being defensive." 

An officer was also injured while hopping a fence. He may have a broken ankle, police said. 

Police said they recovered a gun on scene. Granton's family doubted whether it was his. 

"I just want to know what the real story is," Varnado said. "If it was misconduct, I want justice. My brother was 24

years old. He loved his girls. That's all he lived for, was his kids." 

Now, Varnado said, the family is trying to love and support one another while coming to terms with their loss and

trying to find out more about Granton's fatal encounter with police. 

"It's still unbelievable," she said. "We're still just trying to intake all this, process it, deal with it, our emotions [are] all

over the place. We are talking about him, we are laughing." 

Tension builds between police and bystanders 

Granton was pronounced dead at 8:41 p.m. Wednesday, about a half hour after he was shot, according to the Cook

County Medical Examiner. However, family waited at the hospital for word of his condition for several hours. 

As family and friends gathered in the waiting room, they were told to move outside, where a hospital official

addressed the growing crowd. 

He initially told them there were currently three gunshot victims in the emergency room and they were waiting for

identification, so he couldn't give out any information. 

Around 10:30 p.m., family and hospital officials began loudly arguing about where people were allowed to wait.

Authorities tried to usher the crowd into another lobby nearby, but they insisted on staying outside the emergency

room lobby if they weren't allowed to be inside the waiting room. 

"[Expletive] that. [Expletive] trying to make us move. [Expletive] the police. They shot him," one man said. "We

waiting, bro. We waiting this out. Our family here is shot. Fighting for his life." 

Security outside the emergency room grew to more than a dozen officers, from both the Chicago and University of

Chicago police departments, who created a line in front of the entrance and said the area was on lockdown. 

Police eventually let Varnado and a few other family members inside. Around 11:45 p.m., Varnado walked back out.

She stood next to Tayshia Shaw, who has two daughters with Granton, a one-year-old and another who has not yet

had her first birthday. 

"No he's not," Shaw said. "No..." 

As the truth sank in, Shaw dropped to the sidewalk, lying on her left side. Varnado sat cross-legged with Shaw's

head in her lap, and the women tried to comfort each other through their own tears. 

Meanwhile, several others in the group yelled at police and hospital staff, accusing them of racism and

wrongdoing. Almost silently, the wall of officers continued to guard the entrance the University of Chicago's new

Level I trauma center, which opened on May 2, bringing a flood of gunshot victims to the hospital that would

previously have been transported to one of the city's other trauma centers. 

People injured in the area where Granton was shot were often previously transported to Northwestern Memorial

Hospital on the Near North Side. 

The new center is the South Side's first since the early 1990s, and is expected to serve 2,700 to 4,000 patients a

year. The center cared for 274 adult trauma patients in its first four weeks. 

At the scene of the shooting, near the 47th Street Green Line stop and a liquor store, crowds of people gathered at

the liquor store just outside of the crime scene. 

Some remained in the area while officers updated members of the media, and shouted questions, asking police

where on his body the man was shot. Others shouted at officers who walked by, asking them how they justified the

shooting. 

Frederick Hill, who lives in the area, was walking to the liquor store on the corner of 47th Street and Indiana when

he saw paramedics loading a man into an ambulance. 

Hill said all four corners were crowded with people. They were upset and yelling, he said. 

"People were crying," Hill said. "They wanted to fight." 

'But then this happened' 

Shaw was a freshman and Granton was a sophomore when the two met at Walter Henri Dyett High School for the

Arts in Washington Park. They became friends and, about five years later, started dating, Shaw said. Her favorite

things about him including his personality and his smile. Even though they were no longer a couple, they saw each

other often and were both involved in their daughters' lives, Shaw said. 

Growing up with different foster parents, there were years when Varnado and Granton saw each other only

occasionally, at court-supervised appointments, she said. Varnado said the two reconnected as adults and

described her brother as silly and playful, crazy about his kids and impossible to stay mad at. 

"He's not a bad person," Varnado said. "He always plays. ... He could turn any bad situation into a good one." 

"He's a family man," she continued. "That's all he wanted, because he never had one." 

In the summer, Granton could be found playing basketball at a number of neighborhood courts. He was a particular

fan of the Golden State Warriors' Stephen Curry, Shaw said. He didn't listen to much rap, favoring older R&B such

as Gladys Knight and Luther Vandross. He sang to his kids all the time. His older daughter liked a Drake song,

"God's Plan," so he'd dance around with her and sing along, Shaw said. 

Cheese pizza was his favorite food, typically Home Run Inn bought frozen from Aldis. Shaw said she picked one up

for him Wednesday and was supposed to cook it that night. 

"But then this happened." 

Though records show Granton has an arrest history, his family said that's all in the past. 

"We all grew up in the system," Varnado said. We didn't have our parents. You are a product of your environment.

When he was lashing out, he didn't know who he was, but he turned it around when he had those girls." 

The Civilian Office of Police Accountability is investigating the shooting, and the officer will be placed on

administrative leave. 

COPA Chief Sydney Roberts issued a statement on social media early Thursday morning, stating COPA

investigators remained on the scene and were talking to witnesses. 

CREDIT: By Hannah Leone and Madeline Buckley 


Chicago police fatally shot 24-year-old as he - WFIN - 1330 AM (Findlay,
OH) - July 25, 2018
July 25, 2018 | WFIN - 1330 AM (Findlay, OH) | WFIN

Civilian Office of Police Accountability(CHICAGO) — T he Civilian Order of Police Accountability in
Chicago has released body camera footage showing the shooting a 24-year-old man while he was
running away from officers last month.

M aurice Granton
M aurice Granton died after he was shot on Chicago's South Side on June 6 as police officers
conducted a drug investigation in the area, ABC Chicago station WLS reported at the time.

In the bodycam video, Granton can be seen scaling a wrought iron fence when an officer on the
other side opens fire. After Granton falls, he writhes on the ground, and the officer tells him to
"stay down" while pointing his gun at him.

"T here's a weapon right there," one officer says to another. "Go get the weapon."

Another officer can then be seen climbing to the other side of the fence as a bystander calls out to
Granton.

"Hey, Maurice!" the bystander yells multiple times.

T he video shows Granton lying on the ground for several minutes as a crowd gathers nearby. At
this point, multiple officers were on the same side of the fence as Granton, but no one administers
aid for several minutes.

In the police department's initial statement, officials said officers chased Granton when he fled on
foot and that he was shot after he allegedly displayed a weapon when the officers ordered him to
stop.

After the shooting, the police department released surveillance video that they said showed him
reaching into his pocket for a weapon. It is unclear what the person in the video was reaching for.

Police said a weapon was found on the scene, but the victim's family said it did not belong to
Granton.

Granton's father, Maurice Granton
adding that there was no confrontation between him and the officers either.

M aurice Granton Sr., told reporters that "at no point" was his son armed,

"He was running," Granton Sr. said.

Granton was shot in the back, the Cook County Medical Examiner announced two days after the
shooting.

In a statement to ABC News, the Chicago Police Department said it is "fully cooperating" with
COPA's investigation of the shooting.

"We continue to provide COPA with any and all requested information and fully support their
methodical review of the facts," the statement read. "As of this time, COPA has not requested that
any of the officers involved be relieved of police powers."

Granton's family intends to file a civil lawsuit against the police department.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Findlay Publishing  Co., All Rights Reserved.

 
COPA releases video showing fatal shooting of - Chicago Sun-Times (IL)
- July 25, 2018
July 25, 2018 | Chicago Sun-Times (IL) | Sam Charles

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability released several videos on Wednesday showing the fatal
M aurice Granton Jr. by a Chicago police officer last month in Bronzeville.
shooting of Maurice Granton

COPA showed the video to Granton's family and their attorneys shortly before the video was made
public.

In one video taken from an officer's body camera, the 24-year-old Granton appears to try to hop a
wrought iron fence.

As he is in the air, an officer — whose bodycam captured the shooting — opens fire and Granton
collapses into the gravel of a vacant lot. Nothing could be seen in his hands as he neared the fence.

Granton can be seen writhing on the ground, bleeding for several minutes as officers swarm the
area without giving him aid. Within minutes, dozens of onlookers gather and begin yelling at police.

T he officer who shot Granton instructs several of his colleagues to guard a pistol in the vacant lot,
laying several yards away from where Granton was when he was shot.

M aurice Granton | Facebook photo
M aurice Granton

COPA has a self-imposed policy of releasing recordings of shootings 60 days after the incidents,
but the agency opted to release footage of the Granton shooting after only 49 days.

Andrew M. Stroth, one of the attorneys representing Granton's family, said the footage depicts
the "unjustifiable, unconstitutional execution of Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton."

"M aurice Granton
M aurice Granton is running away and, without cause or provocation, the officer shoots multiple
times, killing him," Stroth said. "Some of the family members had to leave the room because the
video was so devastating."

Granton, a father of two girls, previously had been convicted of robbery and theft, court records
show. Family members and friends described him as a loving person.

"He was silly, goofy, fun," Granton's sister Joanna Varnado, said at a vigil shortly after his death.
"He cared about his family. Everything was about family."

After seeing the video, Stroth said he and his co-counsel, Tony Romanucci, will be pursuing "every
legal remedy on behalf of the family."

Just after the video footage was released, COPA released a statement saying, in part, "COPA also
has a duty to preserve investigative integrity and be prudent in its release to not compromise the
investigation.  COPA's commitment to transparency also includes the release of all available audio
and OEMC/911 recordings."

A vigil for Maurice Granton
Sun-T imes

M aurice Granton Jr., who was fatally shot by Chicago Police. | Rick Majewski/For the

Officers were on a narcotics mission about 8:15 p.m. on June 6 when, officials said, Granton pulled a
gun on tactical officers who were trying to stop him. One officer opened fire during the "armed
encounter," according to a police statement, striking Granton in the back.

Paramedics took Granton to the University of Chicago Medicine trauma center, and he was
pronounced dead at 8:41 p.m., police said. An autopsy Thursday found Granton suffered a gunshot
wound to his back, according to the medical examiner's office.

Chicago police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi shared the video, as well as a photo of a gun
allegedly recovered from Granton at the scene –– "in response to claims that offender was
unarmed and the weapon was planted by CPD officers," he said.

COPA's decision to release footage of the Granton shooting comes shortly after police opted to
release limited footage of an officer fatally shooting Harith Augustus in South Shore earlier this
month.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Sun-Times Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

 

 
Video released Wednesday shows a Chicago police tactical officer fatally shooting a 24-year-old man as he tried to

scale a fence last month in the Bronzeville neighborhood.  

Attorneys for the family said the video challenges the Police Department's account of Maurice Granton ignoring

orders to stop during a foot chase, pulling a weapon and firing at the officer before he was shot June 6. 

Attorney Antonio Romanucci acknowledged that a gun was found at the scene, estimating it was 20 to 25 feet

from Granton's body, but he said many questions remain about the shooting. 

"If you're a young man in the city of Chicago, do not run from the Chicago police," he said. "Maurice did not have a

weapon in his hand when he was shot." 

Romanucci accompanied family members who viewed the video Wednesday at the Civilian Office of Police

Accountability, the city agency that investigates police-involved shootings. COPA then made the video public,

about two weeks before the typical 60-day deadline. 

The shooting remains under investigation. 

Granton's father, Maurice Sr., wearing a red T-shirt with his son's image emblazoned on it and the message

"Heaven Couldn't Wait In Loving Memory, Maurice Granton 1994-2018," told reporters that the video was "hard" for

family members to watch. He also questioned the police version that his son shot at police. 

"He's not a person who would have an armed confrontation with a policeman," Granton said. "He didn't deserve

death for whatever crime they think he committed." 

Documents released Wednesday by COPA identified the officer who fatally shot Granton as Sheldon Thrasher.

Records show Thrasher, who is African-American, joined the department in 2013. He could not be reached for

comment Wednesday. 

Department officials said that both Thrasher and a second officer involved in the shooting have returned to active

duty after taking a mandatory 30-day leave following the incident. 

In a statement Wednesday, Chicago police noted that COPA has not requested that any officers involved in the

incident be relieved of police powers and placed on desk duty. 

Department officials said the Wentworth District tactical officers were in the area conducting a narcotics

investigation when they were directed to the 300 block of East 47th Street. 

Surveillance video showed Granton and others milling around under the CTA Green Line before a police car pulls up

and the men scatter. 

succession. 

time of the shooting. 

The body camera from one officer captured him saying, "Come here, man," and then chasing Granton, who jumped

a wooden fence, leaving the view of that officer's body camera. 

That officer abandoned the chase, shouting in pain. The view from his camera indicated he was limping away. 

But his camera captured the sound of a single gunshot, then a pause, followed by three more shots in quick

The body camera video posted from the officer who appears to have opened fire did not include audio from the

That video showed Granton running across a vacant lot and darting onto a wrought iron fence with one leg raised.

As both of his hands reached for the top of the fence, the officer can be seen raising his gun. The video then

showed Granton immediately fall from the fence, stumble to his left a few feet and drop to the ground, writhing in

Granton was shot in the back, according to the Cook County medical examiner's office. 

About 10 seconds into an emergency dispatch recording released by COPA, an officer can be heard saying, "Shots

fired at and by the police." 

"They're calling a 10-1," said the dispatcher, signaling the code for an officer in distress. "... Shots fired at and by

COPA also released a 911 call made by a woman who claimed the police shot Granton five times. 

"He wasn't even doing nothing!" the caller shouted. "They shot him five times (when) he was on the gate, the

"Can y'all please, y'all can save his life if y'all hurry up!" 

A use-of-force report filed by Thrasher -- released by COPA along with other audio and video evidence -- said he

reported to supervisors that Granton was armed with a semi-automatic pistol and fired on him. 

His body camera video included audio in the moments after the shooting, and the officer who fired can be heard

pointing other officers to a gun near Granton. As irate bystanders approached shouting "Maurice!" the officer told

pain. 

the police." 

police!" 

them, "He woke." 

bystanders. 

At one point, the officer exchanged words with a man nearby as other officers arrived and confronted the

Thrasher was heard on the video encouraging Granton to "stay woke." 

In comments to reporters, Granton's father said his son was "left on the ground like an animal." 

"I'm just seeking justice," he said. "It was a coldblooded murder." 

The Police Department released a limited video shortly after the shooting that it said showed Granton holding a

gun sometime before he was shot by the officer. The department also tweeted out a photo of a 9 mm handgun it

Romanucci on Wednesday took exception to those releases by the department, saying none of the images

said was recovered. 

answered key questions. 

shooting." 

escalate situations." 

"We do not know if Maurice Granton was holding that gun. We do not know if that gun was fired," he said. "We don't

know anything about the gun except the narrative that the Chicago Police Department issued on the day of the

Romanucci also said it was "deeply disturbing that after all this time Chicago police officers are not trained to de-

Granton was pronounced dead at University of Chicago Medical Center. He had been treated at the same hospital

just days before for a graze wound near his right eye. He refused to cooperate with police after officers found him

lying in an alley in the South Side's Chatham neighborhood, authorities said then. 

Granton had two convictions for robbery and theft and several arrests on suspicion of trespassing and drug

possession. His last arrest was in 2016, records show. 

But his family said that with the birth of two daughters in recent years, Granton had put his criminal behavior in the

past. 

---------- 

dhinkel@chicagotribune.com 

asweeney@chicagotribune.com 

jgorner@chicagotribune.com 

CAPTION: Photo: Tayshia Shaw, mother of Maurice Granton's two daughters, arrives Wednesday to view police

video of the fatal shooting of Granton by an officer. ANTONIO PEREZ/CHICAGO TRIBUNE ; Photo: Video released

Wednesday shows Granton scaling a wrought iron fence before being shot June 6. CHICAGO POLICE

DEPARTMENT ; Photo: Maurice Granton Sr., center, said Wednesday his son "didn't deserve death for whatever

crime they think he committed." ANTONIO PEREZ/CHICAGO TRIBUNE ; Photo: A gun was recovered at the scene

where Maurice Granton, 24, was killed. 

CREDIT: By Jeremy Gorner, Dan Hinkel and Annie Sweeney, Chicago ; Chicago Tribune's Jennifer Smith Richards

contributed. 
 
 

WINDY CITY TIMES

June 13, 2018

13

Youth activists hold press 
conference on gun 
violence in Chicago

BY CARRIE MAXWELL 

Youth activists from Good Kids Mad City (GKMC), 
No Cop Academy Campaign, March4OurLives Chi-
cago, The VOYCE Project and Assata’s Daughters 
held a press conference to address the recent po-
lice shooting of Maurice Granton Jr. as well as the 
gun violence that occurs across Chicago June 11 
near Mayor Rahm Emanuel’s office at City Hall.
  Joanna  Barnado  (Maurice’s  sister);  his  two 
young  children’s  mother;  Latayhia  Shaw;  and 
Marjory  Stoneman  Douglas  High  School  (Park-
land, Florida) activists Alex Wind and Sofie Whit-
ney were also in attendance.
  Ahead of the press conference, youth activists 
held up signs of Black people killed by police offi-
cers in Chicago in recent years; the signs included 
their  birth  and  death  dates.  They  also  chanted 
“No Cop Academy, 95 million for the community,” 
spoke  about  the  power  of  the  people  to  make 
positive change and called on Chicagoans to vote 
Emanuel out of office in 2019.
  GKMC’s  Alycia  Moatoa,  Damayanti  Wallace, 
Madison Miller, Jonathan Williams and Taylor Nor-
wood read poems addressing police violence, No 
Cop Academy and Emanuel as well as the need to 

invest in underserved communities on Chicago’s 
South and West sides.
  March4OurLives  Chicago  member  Juan  Reyes 
(who  also  translated  his  remarks  into  Spanish) 
said Emanuel and the city council do not repre-
sent the youth, especially those on the South and 
West sides. He explained that the proposed $95 
million  cop  academy  is  an  example  of  decades 
of systemic oppression that is happening to the 
youth in marginalized neighborhoods across the 
city.  Reyes  noted  that  positive  change  is  only 
going  to  happen  when  the  way  the  city  is  run 
changes  to  help  every  Chicago  citizen  live  and 
thrive anywhere they reside.
  March4OurLives Chicago member Jeremy Liskar 
explained  that  their  organization  is  working  in 
coordination  with  GKMC  and  No  Cop  Academy 
Campaign to address these issues. Natalie Daskal 
from March4OurLives Chicago was also in atten-
dance.
  VOYCE  and  GKMC  leader  Amina  Henderson-
Redwan said the people in her community have 
experienced  the  school-to-prison  pipeline  and 
violence first-hand. She explained that when she 
was nine years old she watched her father die—
and that was not the only time she lost love ones 

 

 

B
a
s
e
p
h
o
t
o
c
o
u
r
t
e
s
y
 
o
f
 
E
m

i
l

y
 
B
e
r
g
e
r

Youth activists from Good Kids Mad City (GKMC), No Cop Academy Campaign, March4OurLives 
Chicago, The VOYCE Project and Assata’s Daughters.  
Photo by Carrie Maxwell

due to gun violence. 
  Henderson-Redwan  noted  that  when  mass 
shootings  happen  at  schools  those  individuals 
get media attention but not young people across 
the  country,  including  Chicago,  who  experience 
gun violence as they go about their daily lives—
she  said  that  has  to  change.  She  said  safety 
means “getting to the root causes” of this violent 
behavior, not pouring money into school security 
guards  and/or  police,  metal  detectors,  arming 
teachers and building new cop academies.
  Wallace asked why Emanuel does not care when 
people  in  neighborhoods  like  hers,  Woodlawn, 
get shot. She said the people in City Hall do not 
care,  and  that  extends  to  certain  parts  of  Chi-
cago that do not experience gun violence every 
day. Wallace noted that the $95 million could be 
spent  on  mental-health  centers  and  school  im-
provements.

  Moatoa explained that this proposed cop acad-
emy will be located in an area where four Chicago 
public elementary schools have been shut down, 
resulting in a situation in which there are now 30 
students  per  teacher  at  the  remaining  schools. 
She said it is not safe for any young person, espe-
cially Black and Brown youth, in the schools with 
armed police officers. Moatoa noted the solidarity 
from March4OurLives Chicago and Parkland activ-
ists who were in attendance.
  Assata’s  Daughters  and  No  Cop  Academy  Cam-
paign member Nita Tennyson said the cop acad-
emy will have resources the schools do not have 
such as art classes. She said more police officers 
will not help the city address gun violence.
  North Lawndale resident and Live Free Chicago 
activist  Willie  Round  spoke  about  the  need  for 

Turn to page 18

“One of the top hottest 
food cities ...” – Zagat

The  D  is  a  growing  foodie  mecca,  where 
fabulous meals go from farm to table in just 
a  few  miles.  Whet  your  appetite  on  vegan 
specialties,  unique 
international  cuisine, 
independent  coffee  shops  and  distinctive 
distilleries. Whatever you might be craving, 
it’s time to get a taste of Detroit.

18

June 13, 2018

WINDY CITY TIMES

Photos by Vern Hester

‘OUT of the Office’ benefits 
Affinity, Chicago House

BY VERN HESTER

On June 6, the 17th iteration of the Pride networking party “OUT of the Office” took place in the rooftop 
lounge of The I/O Godfrey Hotel. 
  The event, through its long history, has remained true to its focus of creating an atmosphere for LGBTQ 
individuals in the business and corporate sector to network and meet while benefiting a worthy causes. 
This year’s beneficiaries were Chicago House and Affinity Chicago. (Previous beneficiaries have included 
Gay Games Chicago, Legacy Chicago, Transworks, The AIDS Walk and Run, The LGBTQ Chamber of Com-
merce and Open Hand Food Pantry.)
  Event creator Andrew Hayes of Fifth Third Bank said in a previous press release, “As you know, 17 years 
ago was a different time for us and the event has been credited with connecting many people together 
who have gone on to enjoy business.” 
  For all the joy and socializing that took place, the event’s focus was squarely on the LGBTQ commu-
nity, with many well-known community activists and leaders, media personalities, corporate business 
individuals, small-business owners, and supporters and allies in attendance.  
  Dreamtown Realty sponsored the event, while Hayes, Mika Stambaugh of TMI, and Brad Edwards of 
CBS 2 Chicago chaired. Sandi Robinson of The Godfrey Hotel, and Sam Powell and Christina Pinson of 
Dreamtown Realty planned “OUT of the Office.”  
  Anthony  Gutierrez,  the  senior  program  director  of  Chicago  House,  and  Imani  Rupert-Gordon  of  Af-
finity Community Services each spoke briefly about the work their respective organizations do for the 
community. Among the many raffle prizes offered were two tickets to The House of Blues Gospel Sunday 
Brunch, two nights at The I/O Godfrey, tickets to a White Sox game, a wine-and-vodka selection and a 
mystery prize titled “Luck be A Lady.”

YOUTH from page 13

community and school resources and investments 
to help West and South side residents thrive in-
stead of what he said was the “unnecessary” $95 
million cop academy.
  Wind said what happened at his school Feb. 14 
happens every day in Chicago, adding that Chi-
cago  youth  need  to  be  heard.  Wind  noted  that 
Black  students  get  suspended  at  a  rate  three 
times higher than white students and that needs 
to be fixed—and that will not happen with a new 
police academy.
  Whitney noted that Chicago youth want to feel 
safe  and  that  is  something  everyone  can  agree 
on. She said their voices are not being heard and 
that is not fair. Whitney said the only way these 
problems  are  going  to  be  fixed  is  by  providing 
schools  and  students  with  the  resources  they 
need so they can have a safe childhood and good 
life.
  Community activist and GKMC mentor Kofi Ade-
mola  was  at  the  press  conference  with  Maurice 
Granton’s family. He said there is a “crisis in our 
community” and police do not make people safer. 

Ademola  explained  that  police  shot  and  killed 
Granton last week and when a vigil was held the 
next  day  another  person  was  shot  in  his  com-
munity. He said listening to young people is the 
best  way  to  achieve  positive  change  for  every 
community in Chicago.
  Barnado,  fighting  back  tears,  spoke  about 
wanting justice for her brother and said the fam-
ily had just left the funeral home where they were 
picking  out  his  casket.  She  said  he  was  a  good 
person  and  she  never  thought  she  would  be  in 
this position where she is demanding answers as 
to why her brother was killed by the police.
  “He was murdered in cold blood,” Barnado al-
leged.
  Shaw said Granton was a great father and did 
everything for his kids.
  During the Q&A session, a reporter asked Wind 
and  Whitney  to  weigh  in  about  being  allies  of 
the  No  Cop  Academy  movement.  This  prompted 
a response from a number of the Chicago activ-
ist speakers who criticized that question, saying 
reporters should be asking about what happened 
to Granton and others affected by gun violence in 
Chicago.

Activism meet-ups,  
personal book recommendations,  
weekly events, Kids Storytime, and more!  
There are so many reasons to support  
Chicago’s only feminist bookstore.

Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

 

 
CHICAGO - A Chicago police officer fatally shot a 24-year-old black man who authorities said pulled a gun while

running away, prompting questions from the man's family about why the encounter turned deadly. 

Sgt. Rocco Alioto said the "armed confrontation" Wednesday evening on the city's South Side happened as officers

conducted a narcotics investigation. He said the suspect fled on foot when officers approached. Alioto said in a

statement that officers told the man to stop and he "produced a weapon," so the officer shot him. 

The man, later identified as Maurice Granton Jr., died of a gunshot wound to the back, the Cook County Medical

Examiner's office said Thursday. The Civilian Office of Police Accountability, which is investigating the shooting,

said late Thursday that preliminary evidence shows there were three shots discharged from the officer's firearm. 

Police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi said that officers involved in a narcotics investigation were watching the

area Wednesday evening through one of a number of surveillance cameras mounted on poles throughout the city.

They saw Granton taking part in what appeared to be an illegal drug transaction and dispatched officers to the

scene. 

Guglielmi posted on Twitter a photograph of what he said was Granton's weapon found at the scene. He said that

there is physical evidence that the gun had been fired. No officer was shot although a sergeant may have suffered

a broken ankle during the confrontation. 

The police department has not released the name or race of the officer involved in Wednesday night's shooting.

Alioto said the officer has been placed on 30-day administrative leave in line with department policy. 

The shooting of Granton comes as police have faced intense scrutiny over allegations of excessive force involving

black suspects. White officer Jason Van Dyke has been charged with first-degree murder in the 2014 shooting of

black teenager Laquan McDonald. He has pleaded not guilty. Release of a video of the shooting of McDonald a

year after it happened prompted outrage and calls for Mayor Rahm Emanuel to resign. 

Chicago police released more details of the Wednesday shooting after Granton's sister, Joanna Varnado,

suggested that the officer had used excessive force. 

"Since when does running validate somebody getting shot?" she asked. The Chicago Tribune reported that

Granton's family expressed doubts that the gun belonged to Granton, the father of two young daughters. 

"I just want to know what the real story is," Varnado said. "If it was misconduct, I want justice. My brother was 24

years old. He loved his girls. That's all he lived for, was his kids." 
 
 

Man shot by Chicago police had been shot days - Breeze-Courier, The
(Taylorville, IL) - June 9, 2018
June 9, 2018 | Breeze-Courier, The (Taylorville, IL)

CHICAGO (AP) &mdash; A 24-year-old man who was fatally shot this week by a Chicago police
officer had suffered a gunshot wound just days earlier. T he Chicago Tribune reports that M aurice
M aurice
Granton
Granton Jr. had refused to cooperate with police after he was treated at an area hospital for a
graze wound near his right eye.

Granton was killed Wednesday evening during what the department says was an &ldquo;armed
confrontation&rdquo; with police officers who were attempting to question him after spotting him
taking part in what they believed was an illegal drug transaction. An autopsy revealed that he was
shot in the back.

Police recovered a gun at the scene they say Granton was carrying. T hey say there is evidence that
the gun had been fired.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Breeze-Courier, The (Taylorville, IL), All Rights Reserved

 

 
Video released Wednesday shows a Chicago police tactical officer fatally shooting a 24-year-old man as he tried to

scale a fence last month in the Bronzeville neighborhood. 

Attorneys for the family said the footage challenges the Police Department’s account of Maurice Granton ignoring

orders to stop during a foot chase, pulling a weapon and firing at the officer before he was shot June 6. 

Attorney Antonio Romanucci acknowledged that a gun was found at the scene, estimating it was about 20 to 25

feet from Granton’s body, but he said many questions remain about the shooting. 

“If you’re a young man in the city of Chicago, do not run from the Chicago police,” he said. “Maurice did not have a

weapon in his hand when he was shot.” 

Romanucci accompanied family members who viewed the footage Wednesday at the Civilian Office of Police

Accountability, the city agency that investigates police-involved shootings. COPA then made the video public,

about two weeks before the typical 60-day deadline. 

The shooting remains under investigation. 

Granton’s father, Maurice Sr., wearing a red T-shirt with his son's image emblazoned on it and the message

“Heaven Couldn’t Wait In Loving Memory, Maurice Granton 1994-2018,” told reporters that the video was “hard” for

family members to watch. He also questioned the police version that his son shot at police. 

“He’s not a person who would have an armed confrontation with a policeman,” he said. “He didn’t deserve death for

whatever crime they think he committed.” 

Documents released Wednesday by COPA identified the officer who fatally shot Granton as Sheldon Thrasher.

Records show Thrasher, who is African-American, joined the department in 2013. He could not be reached for

comment Wednesday. 

Department officials said that both Thrasher and a second officer involved in the shooting have returned to active

duty after taking a mandatory 30-day leave following the incident. 

In a statement Wednesday, Chicago police noted that COPA has not requested that any officers involved in the

incident be relieved of police powers and placed on desk duty. 

Department officials said the Wentworth District tactical officers were in the area conducting a narcotics

investigation when they were directed to the 300 block of East 47th Street. 

Surveillance footage showed Granton and others milling around under the CTA Green Line before a police car pulls

up and the men scatter. 

The body camera from one officer captured him saying, “Come here, man,” and then chasing after Granton, who

jumped a wooden fence, leaving the view of that officer’s body camera. That officer abandoned the chase,

shouting in pain. The view from his camera indicated he was limping away. 

But his camera captured the sound of a single gunshot, then a pause, followed by three more shots in quick

succession. 

The body camera footage posted from the officer who appears to have opened fire did not include audio from the

time of the shooting. 

That video showed Granton running across a vacant lot and darting onto a wrought iron fence with one leg raised.

As both hands reached for the top of the fence, the officer can be seen raising his gun. The footage then showed

Granton immediately fall from the fence, stumble to his left a few feet and then drop to the ground, writhing in pain. 

Granton was shot in the back, according to the Cook County medical examiner’s office. 

About 10 seconds into an emergency dispatch recording released by COPA, an officer can be heard saying, “Shots

fired at and by the police.” 

“They’re calling a 10-1,” said the dispatcher, signaling the code for an officer in distress. “…Shots fired at and by the

police.” 

police!” 

them, “He woke.” 

bystanders. 

COPA also released a 911 call made by a woman who claimed the police shot Granton five times. 

“He wasn’t even doing nothing!” the caller shouted. “They shot him five times (when) he was on the gate, the

“Can y’all please, y’all can save his life if y’all hurry up!” 

A use-of-force report filed by Thrasher —released by COPA along with other audio and video evidence —said he

reported to supervisors that Granton was armed with a semi-automatic pistol and fired on him. 

His body camera video included audio in the moments after the shooting, and the officer who fired can be heard

pointing other officers to a gun near Granton. As irate bystanders approached shouting “Maurice!” the officer told

At one point, the officer exchanged words with a man nearby as other officers arrived and confronted the

Thrasher was heard on the video encouraging Granton to “stay woke.” 

In comments to reporters, Granton’s father said his son was “left on the ground like an animal.” 

“I’m just seeking justice,” he said. “It was a coldblooded murder.” 

The Police Department released a limited video shortly after the shooting that it said showed Granton holding a

gun sometime before he was shot by the officer. The department also tweeted out a photo of a 9 mm handgun it

Romanucci on Wednesday took exception to those releases by the department, saying none of the images

said was recovered. 

answered key questions. 

the shooting.” 

escalate situations.” 

“We do not know if Maurice Granton was holding that gun. We do not know if that gun was fired,” he said. “We

don’t know anything about the gun except the narrative that the Chicago Police Department issued on the day of

Romanucci also said it was “deeply disturbing that after all this time Chicago police officers are not trained to de-

Granton was pronounced dead at University of Chicago Medical Center. He had been treated at the same hospital

just days before for a graze wound near his right eye. He refused to cooperate with police after officers found him

lying in an alley in the South Side’s Chatham neighborhood, authorities said then. 

Granton had two convictions for robbery and theft and several arrests on suspicion of trespassing and drug

But his family said that with the birth of two daughters in recent years, Granton had put his criminal behavior in the

possession. His last arrest was in 2016, records show. 

past. 

Chicago Tribune’s Jennifer Smith Richards contributed 

dhinkel@chicagotribune.com 

asweeney@chicagotribune.com 

jgorner@chicagotribune.com 

Credit: Jeremy Gorner, Dan Hinkel, Annie Sweeney 


In wake of Granton shooting, family joins - Chicago Sun-Times (IL) -
June 12, 2018
June 12, 2018 | Chicago Sun-Times (IL) | Yvonne Kim | For the Sun-Times

Amid Mayor Rahm Emanuel’s plans to funnel $95 million into improving training for Chicago police,
student activists were joined by Parkland shooting survivors and family members of a recent
shooting victim in protesting gun violence at a press conference Monday.

About 20 student members of anti-violence organizations Good Kids Mad City and March for Our
Lives Chicago gathered at City Hall to speak against proposed plans for a new police training
academy on the West Side — a movement branded on social media as “# NoCopAcademy.”

Willie Round, a local musician and student mentor, called the proposed academy a "slap to our face
and to our communities."

T he money “should be invested into our communities and invested into our children," Round said,
adding that it would be much better directed toward schools being shut down and overpopulated in
the same area. "If this mayor really wanted to help us, the $95 million would be directed
somewhere else," he said.

Alex Wind (left) and Sofie Whitney, from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, spoke at a press
conference at City Hall. | Rick Majewski/For the Sun-T imes

T he press conference followed the fatal shooting of 24-year-old Maurice Granton
foot chase in Bronzeville on Wednesday.

M aurice Granton Jr. during a

After Chicago police officials said Granton had pulled a gun during a narcotics investigation, family
members claimed they did not believe he was armed. T he day after the shooting, CPD spokesman
Anthony Guglielmi tweeted a surveillance video that he said shows Granton was holding a semi-
automatic handgun.

At the press conference, family members affirmed their earlier statements that they believe
Granton was unarmed.

"We know he wasn't armed because he wasn't that kind of man," said Latayshia Shaw, mother of
Granton's two children. "He has a reason to come home. So why would he want to risk his life
when he has two young kids to raise?"

Shaw described Granton as a "terrific father" and a "family man."

T wo students from Parkland, Florida, where 17 students were killed in a shooting earlier this year at
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, also joined the chorus of opposition against gun violence.

"On February 14, 17 people died at our school, but what happened at our school is not unique," Alex
Wind said. "Because February 14 is an everyday problem in this city."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Sun-Times Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

 

‘I might be stabbed,’ officer says after - South Jersey Times (NJ) - July 5,
2018 - page A2
July 5, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Joe Brandt | Page A2

Atlantic City

It’s over in under 10 seconds.

A man approaches an Atlantic City police officer on foot and rapidly raises his right arm as the
officer backpedals, gun drawn, yelling, “Put it down.”

T he officer fires, and the man goes down. He later dies.

T he officer was stabbed, and treated and released from a hospital.

Authorities made public Tuesday evening the body-worn camera footage showing the encounter.

T he shooting that killed Timothy Deal
the scene and the other of the officer who was stabbed.

T imothy Deal, 32, is seen from two perspectives: one of an officer on

Neither officer is named.

T he Atlantic County Prosecutor’s Office released the clips of the June 22 incident, which occurred
while officers were investigating a hit-and-run near Kentucky and Caspian avenues.

In the videos, officers are talking to witnesses when Deal approaches.

“Put it down, put it down!” the one officer says as Deal approaches with the knife. T he officer
draws his weapon and shoots deal, who falls behind a van that was involved in the crash.

“You good?” one officer asks after Deal is down.

“I might be stabbed, I’m not sure,” replies the other.

Prosecutor Damon T yner said the incident was tragic in a statement attached to the footage.

“T he unfortunate circumstances, where unarmed individuals have been assaulted and in some
instances killed, that have occurred throughout the United States should not be compared to this
matter,” T yner said.

“We must not lose sight of the fact that a sworn police officer reported to the scene of an accident
to protect the public, and was attacked for no apparent reason. T he officer defended himself and
protected the public from untold harm. T his incident reminds us of how fragile life can be and we

should all be thankful that no innocent bystanders were injured.”"

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 


 
July 04--The Atlantic County Prosecutor's Office on Tuesday released body cam video showing the fatal police

shooting last month of a man who appeared to be holding a knife while lunging at an Atlantic City police officer

who officials said acted in self-defense. 

On June 22, Atlantic City officers responded to the scene of a hit-and-run traffic crash with injuries in the 600 block

of North Kentucky Avenue when Timothy Deal, 32, of Atlantic City, approached one of the officers with what

appears to be a long sharp object in his right hand, both videos show. 

The officer, who was not identified, suddenly draws his gun and yells: "Put it down! Put it down!" 

Deal, who was not involved in the traffic crash, then lunges without apparent hesitation toward the officer who

then fires several shots while stepping backward. Deal collapses and was later pronounced dead at AtlantiCare

Medical Center City Campus. The officer also was taken to AtlantiCare and was treated for a stab wound to his

torso and released, the prosecutor's office said. 

Before the shooting, the officers are seen speaking with a man who is standing next to a child at the scene of an

accident involving a white van on the residential block when Deal suddenly appears. 

The case is being investigated by the Atlantic County Prosecutor's Office Major Crimes Unit without the

participation of the Atlantic City Police Department. 

"The death of Timothy Deal, while tragic, was in response to his unprovoked attack on a police officer with a knife,"

Atlantic County Prosecutor Damon G. Tyner said in a statement. 

CREDIT: By Robert Moran 
 
 


 
ATLANTIC CITY –Authorities released two videos Tuesday that show a fatal police shooting in the wake of a traffic

accident here. 

"Put it down! Put it down!," an officer shouts in one video, backing away and reaching for his gun as a man slowly

approaches him at the scene of a June 22 hit-and-run accident in Atlantic City. 

At about the same time, at least seven shots ring out and the alleged knife-wielding assailant, 32-year-old Timothy

Deal, falls mortally wounded, 

prosecutor's office said. 

Authorities allege Deal stabbed an Atlantic City policeman in "an unprovoked attack." 

Deal was not involved in the hit-and-run accident that drew police to the 600 block of North Kentucky Avenue, the

The second body-cam video shows police calmly talking to a man and a young girl, standing near a white van in

the street, when Deal calmly walks toward an officer. To see videos, go to www.thedailyjournal.com. 

"Yo man," the officer says, raising his service weapon as Deal lifts his right hand and rushes forward. 

"Shots fired! Shots fired!" a voice calls out as Deal reels backwards and falls behind the van. 

Deal, an Atlantic City resident, was pronounced dead at an area hospital. 

The officer, whose name has not been made public, was released from the same hospital after treatment. 

County Prosecutor Damon Tyner called Deal's death "tragic," but said, "We must not lose sight of the fact that a

sworn police officer ... was attacked for no apparent reason." 

"The officer defended himself and protected the public from untold harm," Tyner asserted. 

An ongoing investigation will include the submission of evidence to the New Jersey State Police ballistics lab, the

prosecutor's office said. Atlantic City's Police Department does not have a role in the investigation, it added. 

This image from an Atlantic City Police Department body camera shows Timothy Deal moments before he was

shot and killed by police, authorities say. 

Atlantic County Prosecutor's Office 

CREDIT: Jim Walsh 
 
 

Tyner: A.C. police shooting tragic, justified - - Press of Atlantic City, The
(NJ) - July 4, 2018 - page 1A
July 4, 2018 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | JOHN DeROSIER Staff Writer | Page 1A

AT LANT IC CIT Y - T he June 22 shooting of Timothy Deal
justified, as Deal attacked an officer with a knife, Atlantic County Prosecutor Damon G. T yner said
T uesday.

T imothy Deal on Kentucky Avenue was tragic but

T yner released video footage from the body cameras worn by the officers on the scene of the
shooting.

"We must not lose sight of the fact that a sworn police officer reported to the scene of an accident
to protect the public, and was attacked for no apparent reason," T yner said in a statement. "T he
officer defended himself and protected the public from untold harm. T his incident reminds us of
how fragile life can be, and we should all be thankful that no innocent bystanders were injured."

T yner also cautioned that the shooting of Deal should not be compared to police shootings
elsewhere in the country, "where unarmed individuals have been assaulted and in some instances
killed."

"Each incident has its own set of facts and must be investigated separately," the prosecutor said.

Steve Young, chairman of the Atlantic City chapter of the National Action Network, said the
prosecutor's decision to release the videos on the same day as Deal's funeral was disrespectful.
Deal's services took place Tuesday at the All Wars Memorial Building on Adriatic Avenue, Young
said.

"T his has disturbed and interrupted (the family's) mourning," Young said. "We are asking everyone
to still come together and support the family."

Later Tuesday evening, family and community members gathered where Deal was shot for a small
memorial. Latasha Whaley placed her hand on the photo of her late cousin, saying Deal was a
great man and a great member of the Atlantic City community.

"T he hardest part of this whole thing to watch is our family and his sister, his nieces ... they're
heartbroken," Whaley said. "T o see our cousin tell her daughter that her uncle - her best friend - is
never coming home was the hardest thing to watch."

T he group that met on North Kentucky Avenue wore red shirts with family photos of Deal, some
shirts with the slogan "Justice for T im."

T he shooting death of Deal happened June 22 on the 600 block of North Kentucky, where officers
were investigating a hit-and-run crash with injuries, according to previous reports. During the

investigation, Deal, who was not involved in the accident, approached and allegedly stabbed one of
the officers with a knife, police and the prosecutor said.

*WARNING GRAPHIC VIDEO*

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="e0be8f44-77cb-11e8-ac45-00163ec2aa77"}}

T he body camera video - two segments were released, each a little more than one minute long -
show Deal approaching one of the officers with a knife and then lunging at him. T he officer, who
has not been identified, yells at Deal to drop the knife and then shoots him several times as Deal
swings the knife.

Deal stumbles backward and then falls to the ground.

T he officers then tell him to drop the knife and roll him over and put him in handcuffs.

After shooting Deal, the officer, whose face is blurred in the video, yells into his radio, "Shots fired,
male down, officers OK. ... I might be stabbed; I'm not sure."

T he injured officer and Deal were transported to AtlantiCare Regional Medical Center, City Campus.
Deal was pronounced dead at the hospital's trauma center. T he injured officer was treated and
released, according to the Prosecutor's Office.

T he shooting led to a rally outside the Atlantic City police station and at the spot of the incident
June 24.

People at the rally, which was organized by Young and Deal's family, demanded the body camera
footage be released as well as Deal's body so it could be buried.

Young said the Prosecutor's Office allowed the family to view one of the body camera videos last
week and released the body.

"T his is not the fault of the family or the community," Young said. "We are proud that the Atlantic
City community came together and protested this peacefully."

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="f9f715ea-7711-11e8-84c5-00163ec2aa77"}}

Whaley said the vigils and demonstrations will continue, with the next community vigil being held
this Friday. "T here's other things (the police) could have done. ... We just want justice for my
cousin," Whaley said.

T he Southern Regional Medical Examiner's Office conducted an autopsy of Deal and determined
he died from multiple gunshot wounds, according to the Prosecutor's Office. T he investigation is
ongoing pending, but not limited to, submission of evidence to the New Jersey State Police
Ballistics Laboratory, according to the Prosecutor's Office.

T he prosecutor's Major Crimes Unit is conducting the investigation without the participation of the

Atlantic City Police Department, as per guidelines from the New Jersey Attorney General's Office.

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="ccd03546-77ee-11e8-94ee-00163ec2aa77"}}

Contact: 609-272-7260JDeRosier@pressofac.comT witter @ACPressDeRosier"

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 
Prosecutor: ACPD officer stabbed; assailant killed - Press of Atlantic
City, The (NJ) - June 24, 2018 - page 7A
June 24, 2018 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | MOLLY BILINSKI Staff Writer | Page 7A

AT LANT IC CIT Y - A city man was shot and killed after stabbing a police officer Friday night during
an investigation into a hit and run crash, authorities said.

At 6:30 p.m., police responded to the 600 block of North Kentucky Avenue for a hit-and-run crash
with injuries, according to a news release from the Atlantic County Prosecutor's Office. While they
were investigating, Timothy Deal
knife, the prosecutor's office said.

T imothy Deal, 32, who was not involved, stabbed an officer in the torso with a

It was an unprovoked attack, the release said. T he injured officer then fired his weapon, shooting
Deal, the release said.

Both the officer and Deal were taken to AtlantiCare Regional Medical Center's City Campus, where
Deal was pronounced dead and the officer was treated and released, the prosecutor's office said.

An autopsy by the Southern Regional Medical Examiner's Officer Saturday found Deal died from
multiple gunshot wounds.

T he officer's identity was not released.

T he investigation is continuing by the county prosecutor's Major Crimes Unit without resort police,
per state guidelines, and will include evidence submitted to the State Police Ballistics Laboratory,
the release said.

Anyone with information is asked to call Major Crimes Unit at 609-909-7800, or after hours at 609-
909-7200.

Contact: 609-272-7241 MBilinski@pressofac.com T witter @ACPressMollyB"

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 

 
A man was shot dead in Atlantic City on Friday night by a police officer he had allegedly stabbed during an

investigation of an unrelated hit-and-run accident, the Atlantic County Prosecutor's Office said. 

According to a statement issued Saturday by the Prosecutor's Office, police were investigating a crash on the 600

block of North Kentucky Avenue when Timothy Deal, 32, of Atlantic City, approached around 6:30 p.m. and, without

provocation, stabbed an officer in the torso with a knife. 

The officer, whose identity was not revealed, shot Deal, the Prosecutor's Office said. Both men were taken to the

AtlantiCare Medical Center City Campus Trauma Center, where Deal was pronounced dead. The officer was treated

and released. He is currently unable to work because of his injuries, said a spokesperson for the Prosecutor's

An autopsy Saturday morning by the Southern Regional Medical Examiner's Office preliminarily determined that

Deal died from multiple gunshot wounds, according to the Prosecutor's Office. An investigation continues, and

evidence will be submitted to the New Jersey State Police Ballistics Laboratory. 

Following New Jersey attorney general guidelines, its Division of Criminal Justice was notified and the Atlantic

County Major Crimes Unit is conducting the investigation without the participation of the Atlantic City Police

Anyone with information is asked to contact the Major Crimes Unit at 609-909-7800 or, after hours, at 609-909-

Office. 

Department. 

7200. 

Publication title:

Philadelphia Inquirer; Philadelphia, Pa.

dmastrull@phillynews.com 

215-854-2466 @dmastrull 

Credit: By Diane Mastrull STAFF WRITER 
 
 

Man shot by police is confirmed dead; AC cop who - Star-Ledger, The
(Newark, NJ) - June 24, 2018 - page A12
June 24, 2018 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ) | Page A12

atlantic city

Authorities are investigating a fatal police-involved shooting in Atlantic City involving a man who
has been confirmed dead and a police officer who was stabbed.

According to the Atlantic County Prosecutor’s Office, officers were dispatched to the 600 block of
North Kentucky Avenue on Friday for a hit-and-run.

While police were at the scene, Timothy Deal
with a knife, the report said.

T imothy Deal, 32, approached and stabbed an officer in the torso

T he officer then fired his weapon. Both the officer and Deal were taken to the AtlantiCare Medical
Center City Campus Trauma Center, where Deal was pronounced dead. An autopsy confirmed
Deal died from multiple gunshot wounds.

T he officer, whose name has not been released, was treated and released.

T he Atlantic County Major Crimes Unit is conducting the investigation. Anyone with information is
asked to contact the major crimes unit at 609-909-7800 or after hours 609-909-7200. — T aylor
T iamoyo Harris

A 26-year-old man was arrested following an explosion in Cranford on Wednesday evening,
authorities said.

Witnesses reported hearing an explosion near Raritan Road and Summit Terrace around 7 p.m.,
police said in a statement.

Officers checked surveillance cameras, interviewed witnesses and obtained a search warrant
before taking Michael Kossup into custody at his Linden home T hursday. He was charged with
possession of prohibited devices. Police didn’t say what those devices were. He was also found
with a small amount of marijuana, police said.

Linden police, the New Jersey Office of Homeland Security, the Union County Sheriff’s Office, the
prosecutor’s office and a county SWAT  team took part in the investigation. Cranford police didn’t
immediately return a call from NJ Advance Media seeking additional information. — Jeff Goldman"

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Star-Ledg er. All Rights Reserved. Used by NewsBank with Permission.

 
Man dead; stabbed cop released from hospital - South Jersey Times (NJ)
- June 24, 2018 - page B2
June 24, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Taylor Tiamoyo Harris | Page B2

atlantic city

Authorities are investigating a fatal police-involved shooting in Atlantic City involving a man who
has been confirmed dead and a police officer who was stabbed.

According to the Atlantic County Prosecutor’s Office, officers were dispatched to the 600 block of
North Kentucky Avenue on Friday for a hit-and-run.

While police were at the scene, Timothy Deal
with a knife, the report said.

T imothy Deal, 32, approached and stabbed an officer in the torso

T he officer then fired his weapon. Both the officer and Deal were taken to the AtlantiCare Medical
Center City Campus Trauma Center, where Deal was pronounced dead. An autopsy confirmed
Deal died from multiple gunshot wounds.

T he officer was treated and released, but authorities have not released the officer’s name.

T he Atlantic County Major Crimes Unit is conducting the investigation without the participation of
the Atlantic City Police Department.

Anyone with information is asked to contact Major Crimes Unit at 609-909-7800 or, after hours, at
609-909-7200."

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
Loved ones protest ACPD shooting - Family members - Press of Atlantic
City, The (NJ) - June 25, 2018 - page 1A
June 25, 2018 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | ERIN SERPICO & JOHN DeROSIER Staff Writers | Page 1A

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="5d40e1c4-77d7-11e8-beef-00163ec2aa77"}}

AT LANT IC CIT Y - Dozens of family members, friends and supporters of an Atlantic City man shot
and killed by police stood on a North Kentucky Avenue block Sunday afternoon in a circle of prayer.

A memorial of candles, stuffed animals, balloons and a sign that read, "Justice For T im," leaned
against a telephone pole at the 600 block. Police tape stretched across a portion of the sidewalk,
right near where Timothy Deal

T imothy Deal was shot.

"All of us loved him, and he loved everybody out here. We're out here for T im, to get justice for
T im," said Deal's mother, Gloria. "T hey killed the wrong kid."

Deal, 32, of Atlantic City, was shot by a police officer Friday on that block after, authorities alleged,
he stabbed the officer. Deal was taken to AtlantiCare Regional Medical Center City's Campus,
where he was later pronounced dead.

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="ccd03546-77ee-11e8-94ee-00163ec2aa77"}}

Following the shooting Friday, the Atlantic County Prosecutor's Office released a statement
alleging Deal stabbed an officer in the torso with a knife during an investigation into a hit-and-run
crash at the 600 block of North Kentucky Avenue.

T he prosecutor's office said Deal was not involved in the hit-and-run and it was an "unprovoked
attack."

About 100 of Deal's family members and friends gathered earlier Sunday outside the Public Safety
Building on Atlantic Avenue to call for action before the vigil. T hey marched around the police
building, chanting and demanding police release the body camera video of the incident.

T hey advocated for transparency from the department about what happened, while family
members held signs that read, "T imothy Deal
T imothy Deal RIP," "Let's Work T ogether" and "Stop Gun
Violence."

Deal's family said anyone who knew him would know the incident described by authorities didn't
sound like him.

"He's not that kind of person," said T aria King, Deal's sister, who traveled to the city from Newark,
wiping away tears. "He would not do that. T hat's not his personality, it's not his demeanor."

He was a family-oriented man, family members said. Deal's mother remembered how T imothy
would always call her, and several family members said Deal was like a son to them. King said he
was an amazing brother, uncle and son.

A spokeswoman for the Atlantic County Prosecutor's Office said authorities plan to release the
body camera video in accordance with state guidelines.

"T he body camera footage will be released in accordance with Attorney General's guidelines, which
mandate that it is released within 20 days or upon substantial completion of the investigation,"
spokeswoman Donna Weaver said. "We are at a very early juncture into this process."

Authorities have not released the officer's identity. He also was taken to ARMC's City Campus, and
was treated and released, the prosecutor's office said.

In an audio recording of the police scanner that night, which was made public by @AtlanticCity911
on T witter, the officer said on the radio: "We're OK, I'm all right, but I might be stabbed."

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="b21635f4-77f6-11e8-82c4-00163ec2aa77"}}

T he investigation is continuing by the county prosecutor's Major Crimes Unit, without resort police,
per state guidelines, and will include evidence submitted to the State Police Ballistics Laboratory,
the prosecutor's office said.

"We need justice, transparency, accountability, to whoever done this," said Steve Young, an
advocate standing with Deal's family outside the Public Safety Building. "T oday, we're asking for
some transparency and some accountability."

Young, along with Deal's parents, went into the building to ask to see the body camera video. He
said following the meeting with the department that police did not show them the video, and the
group is requesting a federal investigation into the incident.

"We're going to follow it. We're going to make them release everything," said Deal's father,
Michael King.

An autopsy by the Southern Regional Medical Examiner's Office on Saturday found Deal died from
multiple gunshot wounds.

Deal's aunt Patrice Molley, of Egg Harbor T ownship, said outside the police building Sunday the
family was told Deal was shot seven times. And the family has also not been able to see the body,
Molley said.

She said she was searching for closure.

"We just want some answers," she said. "We're not here for problems; we just want to know what's
going on for closure for our family."

Weaver said, "Our Victim Witness Advocate has been in contact with the family about the request

to view the body."

At the vigil, family members took turns going up to the memorial they made for Deal. Some cried,
others comforted each other. Many took turns sharing their favorite memory of Deal.

"We love you, T im," one family member called out at the end of the vigil. "Lay in peace."

Contact: 609-272-7260 JDeRosier@pressofac.com T witter @ACPressDeRosier"

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 

 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) - Authorities in New Jersey say an Atlantic City police officer shot and killed a man after

an unprovoked stabbing at an accident scene.  

injuries on Friday evening.  

The Atlantic County prosecutor's office reports that officers in the city responded to a hit-and-run crash with

During the investigation, officials say, a man who wasn't involved approached the scene and "in an unprovoked

attack" stabbed the officer in the torso with a knife.  

Prosecutors say their preliminary investigation indicates that the injured officer fired, "ending the attack," and both

men were taken to the AlantiCare Medical Center trauma center.  

Thirty-two-year-old Timothy Deal was pronounced dead, and an autopsy Saturday indicated that he died of multiple

gunshot wounds. The officer was treated and released.  

The county's major crimes unit is investigating.  

Credit: By MELINDA DESLATTE, Associated Press 
 
 



 
VINELAND –A 911 call reporting a stranger on a porch who wouldn't leave brought police to the West Wood Street

home where an officer fatally shot the suspect on July 14. 

On Wednesday, the Vineland Police Department released a transcript of the initial 911 call that preceded a 28-

minute encounter ending in the police-involved shooting of Rashaun "Pac Man" Washington. 

The transcript was stripped of identifying information. "Redactions were made to safeguard the identity of the

caller," police explained, referring to reports of threats. 

At 11:22 a.m. July 14, the call came into the city's police dispatch, transferred from the Cumberland County 911

Emergency Communications Center. 

Vineland Dispatcher: 911 where's your emergency? 

County Dispatcher: Vineland, it's Cumberland County with a transfer. I have [Redaction] on the line. [Redaction] at

[Redaction]. [Redaction] reporting that someone's on [Redaction] porch sitting there. [Redaction] asked them to

leave, they won't. [Redaction] doesn't know who they are. [Redaction] calling from [Redaction]. 

Caller: Yeah it's a black dude, he's sitting there, [Redaction] don't even know [Redaction]. And he's over there sitting

on the porch [Redaction]. He says he's waiting for backup. I don't know who he is. I've never seen him and he's just

Vineland Dispatcher: OK, hello. 

Caller: Yeah hi. 

Vineland Dispatcher: Hi and the person's just sitting there? 

sitting there. 

Vineland Dispatcher: OK, what color shirt is he wearing? 

Caller: He has no shirt. He's wearing tan pants. 

Vineland Dispatcher: No shirt and tan pants? 

Caller: Yeah, he doesn't have no shirt. 

Vineland Dispatcher: OK, is he being disorderly or ...? 

Vineland Dispatcher: Like he's on something? 

Caller: He looks like he's on something. 

Vineland Dispatcher: OK, we'll have an officer on the way. 

Caller: All right. 

Vineland Dispatcher: All right, bye bye. 

headquarters. 

'shoot him/kill him' once police arrived." 

explosive device that will take him ... out." 

Several officers were dispatched to the area of Wood Street and the Boulevard, about a block from police

At 11:36 a.m., a dispatcher noted the "male subject has something under his white shirt and is stating for police to

Nine minutes later, a dispatcher notes the "male subject is reporting to officers on location that he has an

The release of the 911 transcript comes six days after the Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office released videos

recorded by Vineland police body cameras of the deadly encounter and an appeal from Washington's family for an

Caller: Well [Redaction] asked him to move and [Redaction]. He's acting like, I don't know ... 

independent investigation into the shooting. 

Body camera videos show police speaking with the 37-year-old Bridgeton man, trying to determine why he is upset

and urging him to calm down as he tells police he has an explosive device. 

"Stay calm for us, OK," an officer tells Washington, urging him think of his children. "We can talk about this." 

"What can we do for you?" an officer asks Washington as he paces back and forth while holding something

wrapped in a shirt. An officer demands Washington put the shirt on the ground so they can talk. 

"What can we do to help you?" the officer ask him. 

Then in an instant, Washington appears to approach an officer. Shots are fired, and Washington falls to the

The details of what unfolded remain under investigation by the Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office and

Washington's family is calling for the state Attorney General's Office to conduct an independent investigation into

the shooting and additional training for police officers. 

A prosecutor's office statement released last week noted Washington was "acting suspiciously" and alluded to

having an "explosive device" while holding something wrapped in a T-shirt, which later turned out to be a garden

ground. 

debated by the public. 

shear with 81/4-inch blade. 

453-0486, ext. 11197. 

The prosecutor's office asks anyone with information about the incident to contact Detective Joseph Lowry at 856-

Anyone who wants to share information anonymously may download CCPOTIP app for Android or iPhone devices;

send a tip via text to 847411, using the keyword CCPOTIP in the message line; or submit a tip at the prosecutor's

Facebook page or website, njccop.org. 

Deborah M. Marko: 856-563-5256; dmarko@gannettnj.com; Twitter: @dmarko_dj 

Family and friends of Rashaun Washington join demonstrators in front of the Vineland Police Department on July

Company / organization:

Name: Twitter Inc; NAICS: 519130; Name: Facebook Inc; NAICS: 518210, 519130

Publication title:

Daily Journal; Vineland, N.J.

19. 

Joe Lamberti/Staff Photographer 

CREDIT: Deborah M. Marko 
 
 


 
VINELAND –The Bridgeton man who was fatally shot by police on Saturday, alluded to having "an explosive device"

but he was carrying a garden shear wrapped in a T-shirt, according to Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office. 

Police body camera footage of the incident was released by the prosecutor. 

Officers, who responded to West Wood Street for reports of a man "acting suspiciously," used de-escalation

techniques during their approximate 28-minute encounter with 37-year-old Rashaun Washington, Cumberland

County Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae said in a news release issued Thursday afternoon. 

At the time the shots were fired, an officer released his K-9 for about 15 seconds while officers tried "to immobilize

Washington and secure the item that was wrapped up in the T-shirt," Webb-McRae said. 

The prosecutor said the police body worn camera footage shows the shirt-wrapped item was a garden shear with

Videos of the incident, captured by bystanders and witnesses, have been shared on social media since the

The investigation is ongoing, officials said, and one Vineland police officer is on administrative leave. 

The prosecutor's office asks anyone with information about the incident to contact Detective Joseph Lowry at 856-

Anyone who wants to share information anonymously may download CCPOTIP app for Android or iPhone devices;

send a tip via text to 847411, using the keyword CCPOTIP in the message line; or submit a tip at the prosecutor's

Facebook page or website, njccop.org. 

Deborah M. Marko: 856-63-5256; dmarko@gannettnj.com; Twitter: @dmarko_dj 

an 8.25-inch blade. 

shooting. 

453-0486, ext. 11197. 

CREDIT: Deborah M. Marko 
 
 


 
Cumberland County authorities on Sunday identified the man fatally shot by police in Vineland over the weekend

as 37-year-old Rashaun Washington. 

Officers with the Vineland Police Department encountered Washington on the front porch of a house on West

Wood Street at about 11:30 a.m. Saturday. Police had responded to the location after a caller reported that a man

was acting "suspiciously," according to the Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office. 

"An encounter between the officers and the subject lasted for several minutes" before the man was shot,

Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae said in a statement. It was not clear whether Washington, of Bridgeton, was

armed or what took place during that encounter. 

The death is being investigated by the Prosecutor's Office, in accordance with state guidelines that pertain to

police-involved shootings, the statement said. 

Credit: By Wendy Ruderman STAFF WRITER 
 
 

Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without

permission.

 

 
VINELAND –A 37-year-old man was fatally shot during a confrontation with police outside a Center City home

Saturday morning. 

Vineland police officers responded at 11:22 a.m. after a caller reported a man was "acting suspiciously" on the

front porch of a house on West Wood Street between the Boulevard and Fourth Street, Cumberland County

Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae said in a statement. 

"An encounter between the officers and the subject lasted for several minutes ending with the subject being fatally

shot," Webb-McRae said. 

The prosecutor on Sunday identified the man as Rashaun Washington of West Industrial Boulevard in Bridgeton. 

Authorities did not say how many officers discharged their weapons and did not identify the officers who were

involved in the incident, which occurred less than two blocks away from Vineland's police headquarters. They did

not indicate if Washington had a weapon, but eyewitness videos posted on social media suggest he was unarmed. 

The prosecutor's office said it's leading the investigation in accordance with state attorney general guidelines for

incidents involving use of force by police. 

A video posted on Facebook by Tina Wainwright, apparently filmed shortly before the shooting, shows at least

three officers facing a shirtless man who appears to be pacing back and forth on the ground while facing them and

sometimes crouching. One of the officers is accompanied by a K-9 and at least one is holding a firearm during

what appears to be a standoff. 

Another video posted on Facebook by an eyewitness shows the moment when the gunfire occurs. The video

shows the man starting to run in the direction of the police cars, and then as many as three gunshots ring out. 

The video then shows an intense, heated scene involving a crowd of onlookers and police as the man lies on the

ground and a Vineland Emergency Medical Service ambulance arrives at the scene. 

The last police-involved shooting in Vineland occurred in April 2016, when armed robbery suspect Richard Bard of

Bridgeton was killed in an exchange of gunfire during a foot pursuit through Center City. An investigation by the

Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office found the officer in that shooting acted lawfully. 

An analysis last year by USA TODAY NETWORK New Jersey found that nearly all of the 58 people shot and killed by

New Jersey police in the past decade died while attacking officers, with many committing "suicide by cop." In 79

percent of the fatal shootings, the suspect was reported to have brandished a gun or knife or used it to shoot at or

attack responding officers. 

for review. 

The news organization's analysis was based on its review of previously unreleased "use-of-force" reports, which

usually are filled out by officers and then forwarded to county prosecutors and the state Attorney General's Office

Walter L. Hudson Sr., chairman of the Salem County-based National Awareness Alliance, said his organization

would monitor the Vineland incident and needed more facts about what led to Washington's death. 

"This horrific shooting of black and brown people, of overzealous police officers is a national issue," Hudson, a

South Jersey activist who frequently speaks out against violent actions by law enforcement officers, said in a

news release. "All while white men who shoot up churches, schools, movie theaters and businesses are taken into

custody, without a shot fired." 

The prosecutor's office asks anyone with information about the incident to contact Detective Joseph Lowry at 856-

Anyone who wants to share information anonymously may download CCPOTIP app for Android or iPhone devices;

send a tip via text to 847411, using the keyword CCPOTIP in the message line; or submit a tip at the prosecutor's

453-0486, ext. 11197. 

Facebook page or website. 
 
 


 
VINELAND –Community members gathered Thursday evening at the site where Rashaun Washington died in a

weekend police-involved shooting, to comfort his family and call for action. 

"We're not talking politics here. We are here as a community to support the family," community leader Josh

Barreiro said. "What we're trying to do is put pressure to call for an outside investigation into the shooting —we

also want better training for the law enforcement officers." 

"This family is hurting," he told the crowd of about 50 people. "We feel their pain." 

It was the second such gathering at the Boulevard and Wood Street since the shooting. 

Washington's family tied a cluster of silver and blue balloons to a tree, just above a makeshift memorial of candles,

bears and written tributes to the 37-year-old Bridgeton man. 

To the chants of those assembled, they unfurled a banner calling for "Justice for Pac Man," a family nickname for

Family members voiced their frustration with the investigation since the July 14 shooting. 

"I want them to start telling us something, give us some answers," Tiffany Washington said. "We want complete

"He was a fun-loving person, he loved to play and joke around a lot," she said. "He loved his children, he loved his

Washington. 

justice for my brother." 

family." 

Washington was the father of two children and stepfather to two others, she said. 

The gathering, led by three generations of the Washington family, took to Wood Street to march about a block to

the Vineland police station while chanting "No Justice, No Peace" and "Black Lives Matter," 

Along the way, they passed a group that gathered at the corner of Sixth and Wood streets to show their support for

When the marchers arrived at the police station entrance, Steven Young, president of the South Jersey chapter of

the National Action Network civil rights group, requested respect and support for the Washington family. 

"We do understand that there are some problems in our community, but human beings' lives matter," Young said,

setting off a chorus of "yes" cheers. 

"This is the way the community mourns, in the street, peacefully and to get results," he said. "It's about

transparency, accountability and access to the information to find out the truth of what's going on in Vineland as

the police. 

this point." 

Many of those gathered, Young said, were local families who are raising children. 

"We want to leave a legacy of peace and happiness, not mourning and not funerals, we are tired of it," Young said,

acknowledging the recent death of a child by a stray bullet. 

A 9-year-old Bridgeton girl, Jennifer Trejo, was struck by errant gunfire Tuesday as she slept in her home. 

"It's very important if you know something, speak up," Young said. 

For Barbara Jackson, 60, of Newfield, it was her first public protest. She made a sign and took a place in the circle

"It's all over Facebook," she said, noting those accounts of the shooting so close to home "motivated me to come

around the family. 

on out." 

"You just don't shoot without finding out what the problem is —what if that was my brother?" Jackson said. 

She spoke with the outrage voiced by several at the rally. 

"Stop killing black people for no reason at all," Jackson said, while holding out hope for the next generation "to love

one another, I mean come on, we need peace. It's bad enough we've been at war with each other for centuries and

it's senseless, just senseless. How would you feel in our skin?" 

Mirabella Meotti, 41, of Vineland resides down the street from where the shooting unfolded and was familiar with

Washington. She noted his behavior was unusual that day as he paced around. 

"I'm hoping changes are made," she said. "I don't think the police should have shot him. They should have Maced

him or used a baton or something." 

The encounter gave Meotti a change of heart about calling the police for assistance if someone were on drugs. 

"I would not call the police. I will try to find someone to take them to the hospital," she said. 

The protest came just hours after the prosecutor's office released several videos, recorded by Vineland police body

cameras, that show the events leading up to Washington's death. 

A prosecutor's office statement said police responding to a report of a person "acting suspiciously" had an

approximately 28-minute encounter with Washington during which he alluded to having an "explosive device" while

holding something wrapped in a T-shirt. 

After a Vineland officer fired his weapon at Washington and a K-9 was used in an attempt to "immobilize" him,

police learned the item inside the T-shirt was actually a garden shear with an 81/4-inch blade, the prosecutor's

Community leader Tracey Huggins called for "equitable justice. 

Family of the late Rashaun Washington rally with other demonstrators on July 19 in Vineland. 

office said. 

Joe Lamberti/Courier Post 

CREDIT: Deborah M. Marko 
 
 


 
VINELAND –On Saturday, Jamal Johnson, along with the Stop Killing Us initiative, plans to launch a 150-mile

march to Washington, D.C., to end police shootings from the site where Rashaun Washington died July 14 in a

police-involved shooting. 

Caucus. 

The mission is to present the Stop Killing Us Universal Standards for Law Enforcement to the Congressional Black

"We want to end the daily police murders of people and point towards some solutions that could change policing

nationwide," Johnson said. "Also, we want to encourage safer streets in our neighborhoods by reducing crime and

preventing further gun violence." 

They plan to hold a rally at 11 a.m. in the area of Wood and Fourth streets and kick off the march at noon headed

down Landis Avenue to Route 55 to begin the trek to Washington, D.C. 

Anyone is welcome to join in along the way, Johnson said. 

Washington died after police responded to a 911 call about a person sitting on a porch who was asked to leave. 

Body camera videos show police speaking with the 37-year-old Bridgeton man as he tells officers he has an

explosive device while holding something wrapped in a T-shirt. 

After the 28-minute encounter, Washington appears to approach an officer. Shots are fired, and Washington falls

to the ground. The item in the shirt was reported to be a garden shear. 

What unfolded remains under investigation by the Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office. 

Johnson, 61, a U.S. Marine disabled veteran, made a similar march last year to the U.S. Justice Department. That

march called for changes that he said he hasn't yet seen. 

Johnson said he is trying again. 

"It's all about making an effort," he told The Daily Journal. 

This time, they are presenting the Stop Killing Us Universal Standards for Law Enforcement to the caucus. 

The standards, Johnson said, are based on the U.S. Constitution and include: 

Abolishing no-knock searches, noting they are not worth the high risk of loss of life to residences, visitors or law

enforcement. 

Elimination of "the blue wall of silence" that might prohibit law enforcement agents reporting on a colleague's

errors, misconducts, crimes, brutality or criminal involvement in an act of murder or manslaughter. 

Transparency related to law enforcement handling of video-recorded encounters with the public. 

All local municipalities establish an independent citizens' review board. 

Any police officer or law enforcement officer using excessive force of any kind be immediately removed from the

agency/department and prosecuted. 

During a July 19 march, Rashaun Washington's family also called for changes. They requested additional training

for police officers and for the state Attorney General's Office conduct an independent investigation into the

Deborah . Marko; 856-563-5256; dmarko@gannettnj.com; Twitter: @dmarko_dj 

A memorial made for a Bridgeton man, 37, who was fatally shot by police this past Saturday in Vineland. 

shooting. 

Joe Lamberti/ 

Courier Post 

CREDIT: Deborah M. Marko 
 
 

Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without

permission.

 

 
VINELAND –Community members gathered July 19 at the site where Rashaun Washington died in a weekend

police-involved shooting, to comfort his family and call for action. 

"We're not talking politics here. We are here as a community to support the family," community leader Josh

Barreiro said. "What we're trying to do is put pressure to call for an outside investigation into the shooting —we

also want better training for the law enforcement officers." 

"This family is hurting," he told the crowd of about 50 people. "We feel their pain." 

It was the second such gathering at the Boulevard and Wood Street since the shooting. 

Washington's family tied a cluster of silver and blue balloons to a tree, just above a makeshift memorial of candles,

bears and written tributes to the 37-year-old Bridgeton man. 

To the chants of those assembled, they unfurled a banner calling for "Justice for Pac Man," a family nickname for

Family members voiced their frustration with the investigation since the July 14 shooting. 

"I want them to start telling us something, give us some answers," Tiffany Washington said. "We want complete

"He was a fun-loving person, he loved to play and joke around a lot," she said. "He loved his children, he loved his

Washington. 

justice for my brother." 

family." 

Washington was the father of two children and stepfather to two others, she said. 

The gathering, led by three generations of the Washington family, took to Wood Street to march about a block to

the Vineland police station while chanting "No Justice, No Peace" and "Black Lives Matter," 

Along the way, they passed a group that gathered at the corner of Sixth and Wood streets to show their support for

When the marchers arrived at the police station entrance, Steven Young, president of the South Jersey chapter of

the National Action Network civil rights group, requested respect and support for the Washington family. 

"We do understand that there are some problems in our community, but human beings' lives matter," Young said,

setting off a chorus of "yes" cheers. 

"This is the way the community mourns, in the street, peacefully and to get results," he said. "It's about

transparency, accountability and access to the information to find out the truth of what's going on in Vineland as

the police. 

this point." 

Many of those gathered, Young said, were local families who are raising children. 

"We want to leave a legacy of peace and happiness, not mourning and not funerals, we are tired of it," Young said,

acknowledging the recent death of a child by a stray bullet. 

A 9-year-old Bridgeton girl, Jennifer Trejo, was struck by errant gunfire July 17 as she slept in her home. 

"It's very important if you know something, speak up," Young said. 

For Barbara Jackson, 60, of Newfield, it was her first public protest. She made a sign and took a place in the circle

"It's all over Facebook," she said, noting those accounts of the shooting so close to home "motivated me to come

around the family. 

on out." 

"You just don't shoot without finding out what the problem is —what if that was my brother?" Jackson said. 

She spoke with the outrage voiced by several at the rally. 

"Stop killing black people for no reason at all," Jackson said, while holding out hope for the next generation "to love

one another, I mean come on, we need peace. It's bad enough we've been at war with each other for centuries and

it's senseless, just senseless. How would you feel in our skin?" 

Mirabella Meotti, 41, of Vineland resides down the street from where the shooting unfolded and was familiar with

Washington. She noted his behavior was unusual that day. 

"I'm hoping changes are made," she said. "I don't think the police should have shot him. They should have Maced

him or used a baton or something." 

The encounter gave Meotti a change of heart about calling the police for assistance if someone were on drugs. 

"I would not call the police. I will try to find someone to take them to the hospital," she said. 

The protest came just hours after the prosecutor's office released several videos, recorded by Vineland police body

cameras, that show the events leading up to Washington's death. 

A prosecutor's office statement said police responding to a report of a person "acting suspiciously" had an

approximately 28-minute encounter with Washington during which he alluded to having an "explosive device" while

holding something wrapped in a T-shirt. 

After a Vineland officer fired his weapon at Washington and a K-9 was used in an attempt to "immobilize" him,

police learned the item inside the T-shirt was actually a garden shear with an 81/4-inch blade, the prosecutor's

office said. 

Community leader Tracey Huggins called for "equitable justice. 

Standing in solidarity with Washington family "is the same way we need to react each and every time there is an

act of violence in our community," she said. "That way people will understand indeed that our lives matter; black

lives can't matter where black love does not exist. 

"We need to get together, we need to stop acting like it's only the cops that are doing wrong by us," Huggins said.

"We have to own the fact that we need to be accountable each and every day, because if we are really going to live

our lives the way we have a mandate from God to do, it needs to be with each and every one of us, each and every

day, each and every moment." 

our son, it could be my son." 

Addressing the Washington family, Huggins said, "We feel your pain, because it could be our brother, it could be

Next, the community leaders are drafting a letter to U.S. Sens. Cory Booker and Bob Menendez requesting the

state Attorney General's Office conduct an independent investigation of the shooting. They requested those

present download it, sign it and mail it to the legislators. 

"We need to let them know how the community feels," Barreiro said. 

Deborah M. Marko:856-563-5256; dmarko@gannettnj.com: Twitter: @dmarko_dj 

Demonstrators rally in support of the late Rashaun Washington, 37, in Vineland. 

Joe Lamberti/Courier Post 

CREDIT: Deborah M. Marko 
 
 


 
July 15--Cumberland County authorities on Sunday identified the man fatally shot by police in Vineland over the

weekend as 37-year-old Rashaun Washington. 

Officers with the Vineland Police Department encountered Washington on the front porch of a house on West

Wood Street at about 11:30 a.m. Saturday. Police had responded to the location after a caller reported that a man

was acting "suspiciously," according to the Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office. 

"An encounter between the officers and the subject lasted for several minutes" before the man was shot,

Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae said in a statement. It was not clear whether Washington, of Bridgeton, was

armed or what took place during that encounter. 

police-involved shootings, the statement said. 

The death is being investigated by the Prosecutor's Office, in accordance with state guidelines that pertain to

CREDIT: By Wendy Ruderman 
 
 


 
VINELAND –Community members gathered Thursday evening at the site where Rashaun Washington died in a

weekend police-involved shooting, to comfort his family and call for action. 

"We're not talking politics here. We are here as a community to support the family," community leader Josh

Barreiro said. "What we're trying to do is put pressure to call for an outside investigation into the shooting —we

also want better training for the law enforcement officers." 

"This family is hurting," he told the crowd of about 50 people. "We feel their pain." 

It was the second such gathering at the Boulevard and Wood Street since the shooting. 

Washington's family tied a cluster of silver and blue balloons to a tree, just above a makeshift memorial of candles,

bears and written tributes to the 37-year-old Bridgeton man. 

To the chants of those assembled, they unfurled a banner calling for "Justice for Pac Man," a family nickname for

Family members voiced their frustration with the investigation since the July 14 shooting. 

"I want them to start telling us something, give us some answers," Tiffany Washington said. "We want complete

"He was a fun-loving person, he loved to play and joke around a lot," she said. "He loved his children, he loved his

Washington. 

justice for my brother." 

family." 

Washington was the father of two children and stepfather to two others, she said. 

The gathering, led by three generations of the Washington family, took to Wood Street to march about a block to

the Vineland police station while chanting "No Justice, No Peace" and "Black Lives Matter," 

Along the way, they passed a group that gathered at the corner of Sixth and Wood streets to show their support for

When the marchers arrived at the police station entrance, Steven Young, president of the South Jersey chapter of

the National Action Network civil rights group, requested respect and support for the Washington family. 

"We do understand that there are some problems in our community, but human beings' lives matter," Young said,

setting off a chorus of "yes" cheers. 

"This is the way the community mourns, in the street, peacefully and to get results," he said. "It's about

transparency, accountability and access to the information to find out the truth of what's going on in Vineland as

the police. 

this point." 

Many of those gathered, Young said, were local families who are raising children. 

"We want to leave a legacy of peace and happiness, not mourning and not funerals, we are tired of it," Young said,

acknowledging the recent death of a child by a stray bullet. 

A 9-year-old Bridgeton girl, Jennifer Trejo, was struck by errant gunfire Tuesday as she slept in her home. 

"It's very important if you know something, speak up," Young said. 

For Barbara Jackson, 60, of Newfield, it was her first public protest. She made a sign and took a place in the circle

"It's all over Facebook," she said, noting those accounts of the shooting so close to home "motivated me to come

around the family. 

on out." 

"You just don't shoot without finding out what the problem is —what if that was my brother?" Jackson said. 

She spoke with the outrage voiced by several at the rally. 

"Stop killing black people for no reason at all," Jackson said, while holding out hope for the next generation "to love

one another, I mean come on, we need peace. It's bad enough we've been at war with each other for centuries and

it's senseless, just senseless. How would you feel in our skin?" 

Mirabella Meotti, 41, of Vineland resides down the street from where the shooting unfolded and was familiar with

Washington. She noted his behavior was unusual that day as he paced around. 

"I'm hoping changes are made," she said. "I don't think the police should have shot him. They should have Maced

him or used a baton or something." 

The encounter gave Meotti a change of heart about calling the police for assistance if someone were on drugs. 

"I would not call the police. I will try to find someone to take them to the hospital," she said. 

The protest came just hours after the prosecutor's office released several videos, recorded by Vineland police body

cameras, that show the events leading up to Washington's death. 

A prosecutor's office statement said police responding to a report of a person "acting suspiciously" had an

approximately 28-minute encounter with Washington during which he alluded to having an "explosive device" while

holding something wrapped in a T-shirt. 

After a Vineland officer fired his weapon at Washington and a K-9 was used in an attempt to "immobilize" him,

police learned the item inside the T-shirt was actually a garden shear with an 81/4-inch blade, the prosecutor's

office said. 

Community leader Tracey Huggins called for "equitable justice. 

Standing in solidarity with Washington family "is the same way we need to react each and every time there is an

act of violence in our community," she said. "That way people will understand indeed that our lives matter; black

lives can't matter where black love does not exist. 

"We need to get together, we need to stop acting like it's only the cops that are doing wrong by us," Huggins said.

"We have to own the fact that we need to be accountable each and every day, because if we are really going to live

our lives the way we have a mandate from God to do, it needs to be with each and every one of us, each and every

day, each and every moment." 

our son, it could be my son." 

Addressing the Washington family, Huggins said, " We feel your pain, because it could be our brother, it could be

Next, the community leaders are drafting a letter to U.S. Sens. Cory Booker and Bob Menendez requesting the

state Attorney General's Office conduct an independent investigation of the shooting. They requested those

present download it, sign it and mail it to the legislators. 

"We need to let them know how the community feels," Barreiro said. 

Deborah M. Marko:856-563-5256; dmarko@gannettnj.com: Twitter: @dmarko_dj 

Demonstrators rally for the family of the late Rashaun Washington, 37, in Vineland. 

PHOTOS BY Joe Lamberti/Courier Post 

Tiffany Harris, center, is consoled during a rally Thursday for her late brother, Rashaun Washington, in Vineland. 

Shakira Washington wears a "Justice for Pacman" banner at a rally for her late brother, Rashaun Washington. 

CREDIT: Deborah M. Marko 
 
 


Grand jury finds Pawtucket police officers - Westerly Sun, The (RI) -
October 11, 2018 - page A03
October 11, 2018 | Westerly Sun, The (RI) | Page A03

PAWT UCKET  (AP) - A grand jury has found that police officers were justified in fatally shooting a
man in Pawtucket last month. T he state attorney general's office said that the Providence County
Grand Jury completed its investigation into the Sept. 7 fatal shooting of DaShawn Cole

DaShawn Cole, 28,.

T he Pawtucket police say Officer Ana Vertentes tried to make contact with Cole after police
received a call about a man with a gun. Police say Cole, who was armed, then attacked Vertentes
and the officer fired her gun. Officers William Briggs and Dianne Rittman-McLaughlin arrived during
the struggle. T he police said that Cole confronted the two officers and they discharged their
firearms.

Cole was pronounced dead at the hospital.

Copyrig ht 2018, Westerly Sun, The (RI), All Rights Reserved.

 
Man shot, killed by police - 28-year-old man - Times, The (Pawtucket, RI)
- September 8, 2018 - page A1
September 8, 2018 | Times, The (Pawtucket, RI) | JONATHAN BISSONNETTE
jbissonnette@pawtuckettimes.com | Page A1

PAWT UCKET  – Mary Surkont was asleep in her Slade Street home just prior to dawn on Friday
when she was startled awake by a noise foreign to her.

“It was like a ‘ping-ping,’” Surkont said Friday afternoon. “I thought it was someone hitting an
aluminum pipe. But then I heard ‘ping-ping-ping’ again and I thought ‘Oh my god, that sounds like
gunshots.’ I thought ‘No, it couldn’t be. Not on this street.’”

According to Pawtucket Police Chief Tina Goncalves, Pawtucket Police received a call around 6:15
Friday morning for a man with a firearm on or near Cottage Street. Several officers responded to
the scene and a responding officer noticed a man matching the description on Newport Avenue. A
confrontation ensued between police and the man, identified as 28-year-old DaShawn Cole
DaShawn Cole, and
the result was a “felony assault on an officer” with a firearm located on scene, Goncalves said.

Goncalves would not say whether Cole fired any shots at the officers, saying the investigation was
ongoing. She could not say whether or not there was any video footage of the incident, saying that
it was under investigation.

She said that the initial call was for a man with a firearm, as one was allegedly noticed in Cole’s
waistband.

As a result of the confrontation and felony assault, Goncalves said, an officer-involved shooting
occurred in which three patrol officers were involved. Goncalves did not say whether all three
officers fired shots or how many shots were fired,

but said Cole was struck by gunfire and transported to Rhode Island Hospital after CPR was
performed on scene. He was pronounced dead at the hospital on Friday.

Goncalves said she believed this was an isolated incident. T he scene at Slade Street and Newport
Avenue was cleared and Newport Avenue was opened to traffic after being closed for several
hours Friday morning and early afternoon. While officials said the incident appeared isolated, a
“strong police presence” will be maintained in the area.

T he three officers were on administrative leave and their names will be made public soon, city
officials said. Goncalves during a press conference at City Hall on Friday afternoon declined to
name the officers, noting “we’ve checked in on the officers. Obviously, it’s a tragedy.”

None of the officers involved in Friday’s shooting were injured, Public Safety Director James
Vartanian said. Pawtucket Police are working with Rhode Island State Police and the Attorney

General’s Office on the officer-involved shooting.

Friday morning’s shooting, and any sort of gunfire in general, came as a shock to Surkont, who
said nothing like that had ever occurred in her 10 years of living on Slade Street.

“I saw my neighbor say there were bullet holes in her door and hall. I saw an EMT  give the guy CPR
before he was taken away,” Surkont recalled of what she witnessed just after sunrise Friday. “It was
crazy. My tenant upstairs said she came from the other side (of Pawtucket) and was used to it, but
not here.”

“It’s an isolated incident, but everyone’s shook up,” Surkont said.

Friday’s shooting was the second fatal officer-involved shooting in Pawtucket since 2016. On
March 24 of that year, local resident Dominique Silva was shot and killed by Pawtucket Police
Officer Julianne Borsari.

On that day, Pawtucket Police responded to the area of Kenyon Avenue to investigate a robbery.
According to police logs, a caller had been threatened by a dark-skinned man with braids who had a
.38 revolver.

Witnesses who identified Silva as being involved pointed Borsari in his direction, according to police.
When Borsari – who was in uniform in a marked police vehicle – approached, Silva pointed what
appeared to be a handgun at her and fled on foot. T he weapon was later determined to be a BB
gun that resembled a real handgun.

Borsari chased after Silva, ordering him to stop and drop his weapon, police said. Silva again
pointed the weapon at Borsari, who shot Silva.

Jonathan Bissonnette on T witter @J_Bissonnette

Copyrig ht 2018, The Times, All Rights Reserved

 
PAWTUCKET - Officers identified in deadly - Providence Journal (RI) -
September 11, 2018 - page A1
September 11, 2018 | Providence Journal (RI) | Amanda Milkovits Journal Staff Writer | Article | Page A1

PAWT UCKET  - T he Pawtucket police have identified the three officers involved in the fatal shooting
of an armed man who they say attacked them on Newport Avenue on Friday morning.

A passing motorist called 911 at 6:10 a.m. when she saw a man bend down to tie his sneaker -
exposing a gun on his belt, according to a dispatch log obtained Monday by T he Journal. As officers
searched for the man described by the caller, Officer Ana C. Vertentes was the first to find him on
Newport Avenue, the Police Department said in a news release Monday.

T he man with the gun was DaShawn Cole
of gun crimes and time in prison.

DaShawn Cole, 28, an ex-convict from the Boston area with a history

When Vertentes tried to "make contact" with Cole, the police say, he attacked her.

Vertentes struggled with Cole, "resulting in her discharging her firearm," police said. T he police said
Cole was still armed when he confronted Officers William P. Briggs and Dianne L. Rittman-
McLaughlin, and they opened fire. (It wasn't clear from police which officers' bullets hit Cole.)

Sgt. Timothy Graham, a department spokesman, said Saturday that several officers tried to save
Cole's life. "T hey performed CPR and also used a med kit to try to stem the bleeding until rescue
arrived," he said in an email. "It is a department policy to provide care as needed as soon as is
practical."

Cole was pronounced dead from gunshot wounds at Rhode Island Hospital.

Vertentes, who was hired in 2016, and Rittman-McLaughlin and Briggs, who were hired in 2010, are
on paid administrative leave, pending an investigation by Pawtucket police, state police and the
attorney general's office, as is customary in officer-involved shootings. T he investigation is
expected to go to a grand jury, which will determine whether the shooting was justified.

T he dispatch log listed other officers who arrived before the first shots were fired: With Vertentes,
Officers Taylor E. Fay and Rui J. Silva arrived at 6:14 a.m., just four minutes after the call. Minutes
later, Briggs, Rittman-McLaughlin and officers Dylan Salvatore and Michael A. Haberek arrived.

At 6:18 a.m., the officers told dispatch they were with the man at the Shell gas station at Newport
Avenue and Slade Street. T hen, officers radioed "shots fired" and called for a rescue.

T he dispatch log is supposed to include all calls received by the Police Department. However, the
original log from Friday morning sent to T he Journal from the clerk's office did not include any
mention of the firearms call and officer-involved shooting. Instead, there was a gap in time from

1:29 a.m. to 6:39 a.m.

After questions from T he Journal, the mayor's office sent the log that included the incident.

T his followed calls Monday morning from the American Civil Liberties Union of Rhode Island for
Pawtucket police to release more information about the fatal shooting.

In recent instances, most departments in Rhode Island have moved swiftly to identify officers and
give an explanation in officer-involved shootings. Providence police made videos from officers'
body cameras and highway surveillance public the day after a fatal shooting on a Route 95 on-
ramp last fall.

Pawtucket police have handled officer-involved shootings differently. While the department soon
identified two officers who fatally shot an armed man in 2012, it waited nearly a week - and after
protests - to talk about an incident and identify the officer who shot and killed a man who had a
realistic-looking BB gun in 2016.

Police Chief Tina Goncalves said little about what happened Friday, except that the three officers
confronted Cole, who she said assaulted one of the officers with the gun. She did not say whether
Cole fired the weapon or what type of gun it was, or how it came into his possession.

T he ACLU wasn't making any judgments about the officers' actions, executive director Steven
Brown said yesterday, but the department's two-paragraph press release Monday "raises more
questions than it answers."

T he wording was ambiguous, Brown said, and the description of the deadly confrontation with
officers was "deliberately and maddeningly vague."

"Reading between the lines, it does not appear that Cole actually brandished his firearm at any
point," Brown said in an email. "It's even unclear whether the officers actually saw the firearm he
had on him when he was first stopped or during the struggle that ensued, or whether they were
just assuming he had one based on the call they received."

T he lack of information stood in contrast to what police disclose in violent crimes involving civilians,
the ACLU said. "T he public deserves much more specific information at this time rather than such
an imprecise and sketchy recounting of the shooting," Brown said.

T here have been 14 deadly police shootings in Rhode Island since 2006; seven involve the
Pawtucket police. T he ACLU called on the state attorney general and Goncalves "to conduct a
thorough review of the Pawtucket Police Department's training and practices to determine the
causes behind this disconcerting track record."

Graham had no comment on the ACLU's call for an investigation of the number of police-involved
shootings in Pawtucket.

-With reports from staff writer T om Mooney

Copyrig ht © 2018 Providence Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 
PAWTUCKET - The Pawtucket police have identified - Providence
Journal (RI) - September 11, 2018 - page A3
September 11, 2018 | Providence Journal (RI) | Amanda Milkovits Journal Staff Writer | Article | Page A3

PAWT UCKET  - T he Pawtucket police have identified the three officers involved in the fatal shooting
of an armed man who they say attacked them on Newport Avenue on Friday morning.

A passing motorist called 911 at 6:10 a.m. when she saw a man bend down to tie his sneaker -
exposing a gun on his belt, according to a dispatch log obtained Monday by T he Journal. As officers
searched for the man described by the caller, Officer Ana C. Vertentes was the first to find him on
Newport Avenue, the Police Department said in a news release Monday.

T he man with the gun was DaShawn Cole
of gun crimes and time in prison.

DaShawn Cole, 28, an ex-convict from the Boston area with a history

When Vertentes tried to "make contact" with Cole, the police say, he attacked her.

Vertentes struggled with Cole, "resulting in her discharging her firearm," police said. T he police said
Cole was still armed when he confronted Officers William P. Briggs and Dianne L. Rittman-
McLaughlin, and they opened fire. (It wasn't clear from police which officers' bullets hit Cole.)

Sgt. Timothy Graham, a department spokesman, said Saturday that several officers tried to save
Cole's life. "T hey performed CPR and also used a med kit to try to stem the bleeding until rescue
arrived," he said in an email. "It is a department policy to provide care as needed as soon as is
practical."

Cole was pronounced dead from gunshot wounds at Rhode Island Hospital.

Vertentes, who was hired in 2016, and Rittman-McLaughlin and Briggs, who were hired in 2010, are
on paid administrative leave, pending an investigation by Pawtucket police, state police and the
attorney general's office, as is customary in officer-involved shootings. T he investigation is
expected to go to a grand jury, which will determine whether the shooting was justified.

T he dispatch log listed other officers who arrived before the first shots were fired: With Vertentes,
Officers Taylor E. Fay and Rui J. Silva arrived at 6:14 a.m., just four minutes after the call. Minutes
later, Briggs, Rittman-McLaughlin and officers Dylan Salvatore and Michael A. Haberek arrived.

At 6:18 a.m., the officers told dispatch they were with the man at the Shell gas station at Newport
Avenue and Slade Street. T hen, officers radioed "shots fired" and called for a rescue.

T he dispatch log is supposed to include all calls received by the Police Department. However, the
original log from Friday morning sent to T he Journal from the clerk's office did not include any
mention of the firearms call and officer-involved shooting. Instead, there was a gap in time from

1:29 a.m. to 6:39 a.m.

After questions from T he Journal, the mayor's office sent the log that included the incident.

T his followed calls Monday morning from the American Civil Liberties Union of Rhode Island for
Pawtucket police to release more information about the fatal shooting.

In recent instances, most departments in Rhode Island have moved swiftly to identify officers and
give an explanation in officer-involved shootings. Providence police made videos from officers'
body cameras and highway surveillance public the day after a fatal shooting on a Route 95 on-
ramp last fall.

Pawtucket police have handled officer-involved shootings differently. While the department soon
identified two officers who fatally shot an armed man in 2012, it waited nearly a week - and after
protests - to talk about an incident and identify the officer who shot and killed a man who had a
realistic-looking BB gun in 2016.

Police Chief Tina Goncalves said little about what happened Friday, except that the three officers
confronted Cole, who she said assaulted one of the officers with the gun. She did not say whether
Cole fired the weapon or what type of gun it was, or how it came into his possession.

T he ACLU wasn't making any judgments about the officers' actions, executive director Steven
Brown said yesterday, but the department's two-paragraph press release Monday "raises more
questions than it answers."

T he wording was ambiguous, Brown said, and the description of the deadly confrontation with
officers was "deliberately and maddeningly vague."

"Reading between the lines, it does not appear that Cole actually brandished his firearm at any
point," Brown said in an email. "It's even unclear whether the officers actually saw the firearm he
had on him when he was first stopped or during the struggle that ensued, or whether they were
just assuming he had one based on the call they received."

T he lack of information stood in contrast to what police disclose in violent crimes involving civilians,
the ACLU said. "T he public deserves much more specific information at this time rather than such
an imprecise and sketchy recounting of the shooting," Brown said.

T here have been 14 deadly police shootings in Rhode Island since 2006; seven involve the
Pawtucket police. T he ACLU called on the state attorney general and Goncalves "to conduct a
thorough review of the Pawtucket Police Department's training and practices to determine the
causes behind this disconcerting track record."

Graham had no comment on the ACLU's call for an investigation of the number of police-involved
shootings in Pawtucket.

-With reports from staff writer T om Mooney

Copyrig ht © 2018 Providence Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 
Pawtucket police release details in shooting - Valley Breeze, The:
Pawtucket Edition (RI) - September 12, 2018
September 12, 2018 | Valley Breeze, The: Pawtucket Edition (RI) | ETHAN SHOREY

DaShawn Cole,
PAWT UCKET  – Police this week offered more details in the case of a local man, DaShawn Cole
who was killed by police in a shooting early last Friday morning, including the name of the police
officer who shot him.

Last Friday, Sept. 7, around 6:30 a.m., officers responded to a 911 call for a man with a gun in the
area of Cottage Street. T he first responding officer, Ana Vertentes, found a man who matched the
description on Newport Avenue, said police in a news release late Monday afternoon. When she
attempted to make contact with Cole, who had a gun, “he immediately attacked her,” said police in
the release.

“A violent struggle ensued between Officer Vertentes and Cole, resulting in her discharging her
firearm,” states the release. “During the struggle, backup Officers William Briggs and Dianne
Rittman-McLaughlin responded. While still armed with the firearm, Cole confronts the two officers,
resulting in Officers Rittman-McLaughlin and Briggs discharging their firearms.”

Several officers on scene attempted life-saving measures including CPR on Cole until rescue
personnel arrived, according to police. Cole was later pronounced dead at Rhode Island Hospital.
T he investigation is ongoing, and the Pawtucket Police Department is working with the Rhode
Island State Police and the Rhode Island Attorney General’s Office throughout the investigation.

Vertentes was hired in July of 2016 and Rittman-McLaughlin and Briggs were hired in March of
2010.

Earlier on Monday, the Rhode Island ACLU put out a statement questioning why more details
hadn’t been disclosed to that point, also pointing out that half of the state’s police-involved
shootings since 2006 have occurred in Pawtucket.

Public Safety Director Jim Vartanian responded to the ACLU’s assertions with a statement Monday
afternoon saying officials appreciate the ACLU’s role in preserving rights, adding that more
information would be forthcoming.

“Please rest assured that more information regarding the shooting will be forthcoming, and that it
will be as transparent as possible as the investigation continues and ultimately comes to
conclusion,” he said.

In his release Monday, ACLU Executive Director Steven Brown said that “very basic information”
about the incident remained undisclosed.

Brown contrasted “the belated sharing of information by police during officer-involved shootings

and the much more free-flowing disclosure of information when serious civilian-upon-civilian
crimes occur,” saying it is “striking and totally unacceptable. In fact, similar secrecy disconcertingly
shrouded the last fatal police shooting in Pawtucket in 2016.”

According to published accounts, there have been 14 incidents of deadly police shootings in Rhode
Island since 2006. Of those 14 deaths, seven of them, have been at the hands of Pawtucket police,
“a truly alarming figure,” said Brown.

Of the city’s 10 officer-involved shootings since 2003, seven have been fatal. All previous ones
were ruled justified.

“While this figure is disturbing, we want to emphasize that we make no judgment on the actions
police took on Friday,” said Brown. “Indeed, we don’t have enough information for that. However, it
cannot be denied that Pawtucket police are far more likely to use deadly force than other police
departments.”

T he ACLU recognizes the dangers police face daily, and that every police shooting must be
evaluated on its own merits and in recognition of the split-second decisions that officers must
often make, added Brown, but Pawtucket’s numbers warrant both internal and external
investigations, as well as a review of the police department’s training and practices to determine
“the causes behind this disconcerting track record.”

“Just as importantly, we call on all police departments to be more forthcoming with basic
information about police shootings when they occur, rather than shrouding them in secrecy for
lengthy periods of time,” he said.

In an afternoon press conference last Friday, police announced that the person who died in an
officer-involved shooting that morning, Cole, 28, was carrying a firearm and allegedly committed a
felony assault of an officer prior to the shooting.

T he shooting took place around 6:30 a.m. in the area of Newport Avenue and Benefit Street. No
officers were hurt, according to Chief of Police Tina Goncalves. T he three patrol officers who
confronted Cole and were involved in the incident were placed on administrative leave, she said.

T he chief said more than a dozen times during a five-minute press conference that she wouldn’t
be commenting further and the matter was still under investigation.

Copyrig ht 2018 Breeze Publications, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

 
ACLU-Rhode Island Issues Statement on Fatal - Targeted News Service
(USA) - September 10, 2018
September 10, 2018 | Targeted News Service (USA) | Press Releases

PROVIDENCE, Rhode Island, Sept. 10 -- T he American Civil Liberties Union of Rhode Island issued
the following statement by Executive Director Steven Brown on the fatal shooting of DaShawn
DaShawn
ColeCole by Pawtucket police:

DaShawn Cole was killed by Pawtucket police, yet very

"It has been more than 72 hours since DaShawn Cole
basic information about this tragic incident remains undisclosed. T he names of the officers, how
many shots were fired, the threat faced by the police at the time, even whether the victim fired any
shots himself -- all of this remains unknown. We assume - we hope - that this and related
information will be released shortly, but the contrast between the belated sharing of information
by police during officer-involved shootings and the much more free-flowing disclosure of
information when serious civilian-upon-civilian crimes occur remains striking and totally
unacceptable. In fact, similar secrecy disconcertingly shrouded the last fatal police shooting in
Pawtucket in 2016.(1)

"Friday's deadly shooting warrants consideration for another important reason. According to
published accounts, there have been 14 incidents of deadly police shootings in Rhode Island since
2006. Of those 14 deaths, seven of them - one-half - have been at the hands of one police
department: Pawtucket. T his is a truly alarming figure.(2) By contrast, Providence, which has a
population more than two times as large as Pawtucket and a higher crime rate overall, has had
two fatal shootings by police in the same time period.

"While this figure is disturbing, we want to emphasize that we make no judgement on the actions
police took on Friday. Indeed, we don't have enough information for that. However, it cannot be
denied that Pawtucket police are far more likely to use deadly force than other police departments.

"T he ACLU fully recognizes the dangers police face daily, and that every police shooting must be
individually evaluated on its own merits and in recognition of the split-second decisions that officers
must often make. However, when one department protecting a city whose population makes up
about 7 percent of the state's population is nonetheless responsible for half of the fatal police
shootings in the past decade, both internal and external investigations of this troubling fact are
clearly warranted.

"T he ACLU calls on the Attorney General and the Police Chief to conduct a thorough review of the
Pawtucket Police Department's training and practices to determine the causes behind this
disconcerting track record. Just as importantly, we call on all police departments to be more
forthcoming with basic information about police shootings when they occur, rather than shrouding
them in secrecy for lengthy periods of time. T he formulaic silence by law enforcement that
routinely follows these shootings promotes a double standard that can only breed mistrust and
suspicion."

Footnotes:

(1) Providence Journal, "Information Lacking in Pawtucket Police Shooting of 24 Year Old Man,"
Amanda Milkovits, April 25, 2016.

(2) A Providence Journal article from 2016 documented 16 fatal police shootings in the state going
back to 2001, and there appear to have been three more, including Friday's death, since then.
T aking that longer view, Pawtucket police are still responsible for more than one-third of all fatal
police shootings in the state. Providence Journal, "RI Police Officers Involved in 16 Fatal Incidents in
Last 15 Years," Amanda Milkovits, March 28, 2016.

MST RUCK-6438168 MST RUCK

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Targeted News Service. All rights reserved.

 
PAWTUCKET - A 28-year-old Pawtucket man was killed - Providence
Journal (RI) - September 8, 2018 - page A7
September 8, 2018 | Providence Journal (RI) | Brian Amaral, Katie Mulvaney and Kevin G. Andrade Journal Staff
Writers | Article | Page A7

PAWT UCKET  - A 28-year-old Pawtucket man was killed Friday morning in what city officials
described as an "officer-involved shooting."

Pawtucket Police Chief Tina Goncalves, speaking at a news conference Friday afternoon, said
officers received a call at about 6:15 a.m. reporting a man with a gun.

She said three officers confronted DaShawn Cole
gun - although she did not say whether he fired the weapon.

DaShawn Cole, who she said then assaulted the officers with a

T he three officers, whom Goncalves did not name, are on administrative leave as the case is
investigated. No officer was hurt, she said.

A section of Newport Avenue less than a half mile south of the Attleboro border was closed for
much of the day.

Outside the news conference, members of Cole's family gathered and expressed disbelief at the
death of DaShawn.

His sister, Courtney Hooker, said that Cole was an "amazing person" and a loving uncle to her
children.

His adoptive mother, Linda Allen, said that Cole, a Pawtucket resident and landscaper, loved fishing,
and that he would never hurt anyone.

"No police called or told me anything," she said. "I'm finding all this out on the street."

Cole's brother, Darvon, said that he was confused and wanted answers.

"I don't know anything about what's happening now," he said. "I asked the cop specifically, 'Did he
[DaShawn] let off first?' and he said, 'Yes.'"

"I just want to know how many times he got shot," he said, adding that a detective told him over
the phone that DaShawn was shot eight times, though police declined to comment on the matter.
"I don't know anything right now. If he did get all those shots, I want to know why."

Darvon Cole also said Rhode Island Hospital did not allow the family to identify DaShawn's body
after Pawtucket police asked them to do so.

"HIPPA confidentiality laws prevent Rhode Island Hospital from discussing the case," a Lifespan
spokesman said. "Based on your [the Journal's] description of the case, the hospital would certainly
not deny a family's request to see a loved one unless specifically requested by police in an active
investigation."

DaShawn Cole had been arrested four times in Massachusetts on gun possession charges,
DaShawn Cole
according to the Suffolk County district attorney's office. T he latest was in January 2009, when he
was caught in Roxbury with a handgun, a .357 Magnum. He pleaded guilty to unlawful possession
of a firearm in December 2009 and was sentenced to four years in state prison, according to the
district attorney's office.

T his is the third officer-involved shooting - and the first fatal one - this year in Rhode Island.

Woonsocket officers shot and wounded Tyler Chandler, 22, when he fired at them on July 2. A
T iverton police lieutenant shot and wounded Scott Banville, 44, after he allegedly pointed a .50-
caliber muzzleloader at officers responding to a call about domestic violence on April 4.

Both shootings were determined to be justified following investigations.

T he last time the Pawtucket police were involved in a shooting was March 24, 2016, when Officer
Julianne Borsari fatally shot 24-year-old Dominique Silva. Borsari had been responding to a call
about a man with a gun when she came upon Silva, who pointed a weapon at her. Borsari fired and
killed Silva, who turned out to have been holding a realistic-looking BB gun.

A Providence County grand jury determined the shooting of Silva was lawful and legally justified.

For several hours on Friday, police closed busy Newport Avenue near the Benefit Street
intersection as they pored over the scene, taking photographs and placing yellow evidence
markers outside a two-story brown house at the corner of Newport and Slade streets.

Investigators also examined the side of a home behind the Newport Avenue house, on the
opposite side from the scattered evidence markers.

Several police cruisers were on Newport Avenue with their lights flashing; some had been there all
morning, and an investigator took care to take photographs inside of one of them.

Some homes in the area, located in the Darlington section of the city, were within a block-wide
police cordon. Residents had to be escorted by police through yellow crime-scene tape to get
coffee at a nearby Dunkin' Donuts or walk their dogs.

Also at the scene were members of the state police and the attorney general's office, agencies
that typically investigate police-involved shootings. A large state police crime-scene truck was
there, as was Deputy Attorney General Gerald Coyne.

Witnesses said they heard several gunshots early Friday morning.

-With reports from staff writer Amanda Milkovits

Copyrig ht © 2018 Providence Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 
SHOOTING DEATH - Pawtucket man killed by police - Providence
Journal (RI) - September 8, 2018 - page A1
September 8, 2018 | Providence Journal (RI) | Brian Amaral, Katie Mulvaney and Kevin G. Andrade Journal Staff
Writers | Article | Page A1

PAWT UCKET  - A 28-year-old Pawtucket man was killed Friday morning in what city officials
described as an "officer-involved shooting."

Pawtucket Police Chief Tina Goncalves, speaking at a news conference Friday afternoon, said
officers received a call at about 6:15 a.m. reporting a man with a gun.

She said three officers confronted DaShawn Cole
gun - although she did not say whether he fired the weapon.

DaShawn Cole, who she said then assaulted the officers with a

T he three officers, whom Goncalves did not name, are on administrative leave as the case is
investigated. No officer was hurt, she said.

A section of Newport Avenue less than a half mile south of the Attleboro border was closed for
much of the day.

Outside the news conference, members of Cole's family gathered and expressed disbelief at the
death of DaShawn.

His sister, Courtney Hooker, said that Cole was an "amazing person" and a loving uncle to her
children.

His adoptive mother, Linda Allen, said that Cole, a Pawtucket resident and landscaper, loved fishing,
and that he would never hurt anyone.

"No police called or told me anything," she said. "I'm finding all this out on the street."

Cole's brother, Darvon, said that he was confused and wanted answers.

"I don't know anything about what's happening now," he said. "I asked the cop specifically, 'Did he
[DaShawn] let off first?' and he said, 'Yes.'"

"I just want to know how many times he got shot," he said, adding that a detective told him over
the phone that DaShawn was shot eight times, though police declined to comment on the matter.
"I don't know anything right now. If he did get all those shots, I want to know why."

Darvon Cole also said Rhode Island Hospital did not allow the family to identify DaShawn's body
after Pawtucket police asked them to do so.

"HIPPA confidentiality laws prevent Rhode Island Hospital from discussing the case," a Lifespan
spokesman said. "Based on your [the Journal's] description of the case, the hospital would certainly
not deny a family's request to see a loved one unless specifically requested by police in an active
investigation."

DaShawn Cole had been arrested four times in Massachusetts on gun possession charges,
DaShawn Cole
according to the Suffolk County district attorney's office. T he latest was in January 2009, when he
was caught in Roxbury with a handgun, a .357 Magnum. He pleaded guilty to unlawful possession
of a firearm in December 2009 and was sentenced to four years in state prison, according to the
district attorney's office.

T his is the third officer-involved shooting - and the first fatal one - this year in Rhode Island.

Woonsocket officers shot and wounded Tyler Chandler, 22, when he fired at them on July 2. A
T iverton police lieutenant shot and wounded Scott Banville, 44, after he allegedly pointed a .50-
caliber muzzleloader at officers responding to a call about domestic violence on April 4.

Both shootings were determined to be justified following investigations.

T he last time the Pawtucket police were involved in a shooting was March 24, 2016, when Officer
Julianne Borsari fatally shot 24-year-old Dominique Silva. Borsari had been responding to a call
about a man with a gun when she came upon Silva, who pointed a weapon at her. Borsari fired and
killed Silva, who turned out to have been holding a realistic-looking BB gun.

A Providence County grand jury determined the shooting of Silva was lawful and legally justified.

For several hours on Friday, police closed busy Newport Avenue near the Benefit Street
intersection as they pored over the scene, taking photographs and placing yellow evidence
markers outside a two-story brown house at the corner of Newport and Slade streets.

Investigators also examined the side of a home behind the Newport Avenue house, on the
opposite side from the scattered evidence markers.

Several police cruisers were on Newport Avenue with their lights flashing; some had been there all
morning, and an investigator took care to take photographs inside of one of them.

Some homes in the area, located in the Darlington section of the city, were within a block-wide
police cordon. Residents had to be escorted by police through yellow crime-scene tape to get
coffee at a nearby Dunkin' Donuts or walk their dogs.

Also at the scene were members of the state police and the attorney general's office, agencies
that typically investigate police-involved shootings. A large state police crime-scene truck was
there, as was Deputy Attorney General Gerald Coyne.

Witnesses said they heard several gunshots early Friday morning.

-With reports from staff writer Amanda Milkovits

Copyrig ht © 2018 Providence Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 
AG: Shooting by city police justified, lawful - 3 - Times, The (Pawtucket,
RI) - October 11, 2018 - page A1
October 11, 2018 | Times, The (Pawtucket, RI) | JONATHAN BISSONNETTE jbissonnette@pawtuckettimes.com
| Page A1

PAWT UCKET  — Last month’s fatal, officer-involved shooting of DaShawn Cole
DaShawn Cole by members of
the Pawtucket Police Department was determined to be lawful and legally justified, the Attorney
General’s Office announced on Wednesday.

T he Providence County Grand Jury on Wednesday completed its investigation into the facts and
circumstances surrounding the Sept. 7 fatal shooting of Cole by three Pawtucket Police Officers
and the Grand Jury determined the officers’ actions to be “lawful and legally justified,” the AG’s
office said in a one-paragraph statement.

Police last month said that officers were responding to a 911 call for a man with a firearm on
Cottage Street at about 6:15 a.m. on Sept. 7, as a man was allegedly seen walking with a firearm in
his waistband. T he first responding officer – Officer Ana Vertentes – located a man who matched
the caller’s description on Newport Avenue. Police have said that Vertentes attempted to make
contact with the man, who was in possession of a firearm, and who was later identified as the 28-
year-old Cole.

According to a police statement, Cole “immediately attacked her,” and police officials at a press
conference last month described the confrontation as a “felony assault on an officer.” Police said
that “a violent struggle ensued between Officer Vertentes and Cole, resulting in her discharging her
firearm.”

Pawtucket Police Officers William Briggs and Dianne Rittman-McLaughlin also responded, and
police said that an armed Cole also confronted them, resulting in Rittman-McLaughlin and Briggs
firing at him.

Police have not said whether Cole fired on the officers or how many shots were fired by the
officers, nor have they identified what type of firearm he was carrying.

Officers attempted CPR and life-saving measures on the wounded Cole on scene until rescue
personnel arrived. Cole was pronounced dead that day at Rhode Island Hospital.

Vertentes has been a member of the Pawtucket Police Department since July 2016. Officers
Rittman-McLaughlin and Briggs have been with the department since 2010. T he three officers
were on administrative leave following the shooting.

T he Sept. 7 shooting was the seventh fatal shooting involving the Pawtucket Police Department
since 2006 and the second since 2016. T he ACLU of Rhode Island in the days after the fatal
shooting called on the Attorney General and Pawtucket Police Chief to conduct a “thorough review

of the Pawtucket Police Department’s training and practices to determine the causes behind this
disconcerting track record.”

Follow Jonathan Bissonnette on T witter @J_Bissonnette

Copyrig ht 2018, The Times, All Rights Reserved

 
Dispatch report provides more details on fatal - Newport Daily News,
The (RI) - September 10, 2018
September 10, 2018 | Newport Daily News, The (RI) | Amanda Milkovits

PAWT UCKET  — A passing motorist early Friday called 911 when she saw a man bend down to tie
his sneaker — exposing a gun on his belt.

T he man with the gun was 28-year-old DaShawn Cole
dispatch at 6:10 a.m. led to Cole's shooting death after an encounter with three police officers.

DaShawn Cole, according to Pawtucket police. T hat call to

Pawtucket Police Chief Tina Goncalves said little Friday about what happened, except that three
officers confronted Cole, who she said then assaulted one of the officers with the gun. She did not
say whether Cole fired the weapon.

A dispatch log released Monday afternoon by the mayor's office after questions from T he Journal
reveals more information about what happened and the officers who responded.

According to the log, the caller was near the intersection of Central Avenue and Makin Street when
she saw the man in a gray polo shirt and khaki pants walking toward a nearby Pizza Hut. T he caller
was "extremely reluctant" to give her phone number, which police got from 911, although she was
told it was necessary "due to the seriousness of the call."

Officers Taylor E. Fay, Ana C. Vertentes, and Rui J. Silva were the first to arrive at 6:14 a.m., just four
minutes after the call, according to the dispatch log. Minutes later, more officers arrived: Dylan
Salvatore, Dianne L. Rittman-McLaughlin, William P. Briggs and Michael A. Haberek.

At 6:18 a.m., police radioed "shots fired" and called for a rescue. T he log doesn't state who fired
the shots.

Sgt. Timothy Graham, a department spokesman, said Saturday that the officers tried to save
Cole's life. "T hey performed CPR and also used a med kit to try to stem the bleeding until rescue
arrived," he said in an email. "It is a department policy to provide care as needed as soon as is
practical."

T hree officers are on administrative leave, pending an investigation by the police, state police and
attorney general's office, as is customary in officer-involved shootings. A spokesman for Mayor
Donald Grebien said more information about the shooting may be released Monday.

T he dispatch log is supposed to include all calls received by the police department. However, the
log from Friday morning sent to T he Journal from the clerk's office did not include any mention of
the firearms call and officer-involved shooting. Instead, there was a gap in time from 1:29 a.m. to
6:39 a.m.

After questions from T he Journal, the mayor's office sent the log that included the incident.

T his followed calls Monday morning from the Rhode Island chapter of the American Civil Liberties
Union for Pawtucket police to release more information about the fatal shooting.

T he ACLU said "very basic information about this tragic incident remains undisclosed," including the
names of the officers involved, how many shots were fired, the threat faced by the police at the
time and even whether the victim had fired any shots himself.

In recent instances, most departments in Rhode Island have moved swiftly to identify officers and
give an explanation in officer-involved shootings. Providence police also made videos from
officers' body cameras and highway surveillance public the day after a fatal shooting on Route 95
last fall.

Pawtucket police have varied in their response. While the department soon identified two officers
who fatally shot a man with a gun in 2012, the Pawtucket police waited nearly a week — and after
protests — to talk about an incident and identify an officer who shot and killed a man with a
realistic-looking BB gun in 2016.

Since 2003, the Pawtucket police have had 10 officer-involved shootings, including seven that were
fatal. All were determined to be justified.

T he police haven't answered any questions about how they encountered Cole, who is from the
Boston area and has a criminal record in Massachusetts, according to public records and published
reports. Cole had been arrested four times on gun charges and served time in state prison in
Massachusetts.

T he Pawtucket police haven't answered questions about the type of gun they said Cole was
carrying, how it came into his possession, or what he did when encountered by the officers.

In a statement Monday, the ACLU said the lack of information in Friday's shooting "remains striking
and totally unacceptable," particularly in contrast to the disclosure of information when serious
civilian-upon-civilian crimes occur.

T he ACLU said that according to published accounts, there have been 14 incidents of deadly police
shootings in Rhode Island since 2006. Of those 14 deaths, seven have been at the hands of
Pawtucket police.

While saying it was making no judgment as to the police officer's actions Friday, the ACLU called on
the state attorney general and the Pawtucket police chief "to conduct a thorough review of the
Pawtucket Police Department's training and practices to determine the causes behind this
disconcerting track record."

Graham had no comment on the ACLU's call for an investigation on the number of police-involved
shootings.

With reports from staff writer T om Mooney

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, The Newport Daily News. All rights reserved

 

Commish backs cops in slaying - New York Daily News (NY) - January 31,
2018 - page 11
January 31, 2018 | New York Daily News (NY) | Rocco Parascandola and James Fanelli | Page 11

NYPD COMMISSIONER James O'Neill said Tuesday that the two officers who fatally shot a knife-
wielding Bronx man acted appropriately.

T he department's top cop said he reviewed 14 seconds of body camera footage of the deadly
encounter and believed the police response was by the books.

"I am satisfied and I'm glad that the police officers walked away from that safely," O'Neill said. "It
was a violent encounter."

T he two uniformed officers, from the 48th Precinct, responded to a 911 call of a stabbing at East
181st St. and Prospect Ave. at 7:40 p.m. Monday.

T hey confronted Michael H ansf ord
down a street outside his Belmont home, police said.

M ichael H ansf ord, who was wielding a combat knife and chasing his landlord

Before they opened fire, the cops repeatedly ordered Hansford, 52, to drop his weapon. T hey shot
him when he turned toward them, according to NYPD Chief of Patrol Rodney Harrison.

T he officers "engaged the individual, asked him several times to drop the knife, at which time he
lunged at the officers and officers discharged their firearms at him," Harrison said.

© Copyrig ht 2018 New York Daily News. All rights reserved.

 

Police-slay bodycam: 'Shoot me - New York Post (NY) - February 23, 2018
- page 016
February 23, 2018 | New York Post (NY) | Amanda Woods | Page 016

Police released bodycam footage Thursday showing the moment two cops fatally shot a knife-
wielding man who allegedly tried to stab his landlord in T he Bronx.

M ichael
T he footage of the Jan. 29 shooting in West Farms shows the officers demanding that M ichael
H ansf ord, 52, drop his combat knife.
H ansf ord

"Drop the knife! Drop the f--king knife!" one officer orders. Instead of complying, Hansford faces
the cops as he yells, "Shoot me!" T he officer fires four times.

T he video cuts to the second officer, who yells, "Hands up!" Hansford again yells,"Shoot me!"
before the cop fires at him twice and the video ends.

T he landlord had given Hansford two weeks' notice to move out of his Prospect Avenue
apartment for failing to keep up with his rent.

Cops did not identify the officers involved. T he incident remains under review by the Bronx District
Attorney's Office.

Copyrig ht, 2018, New York Post

 
Had a knife when cops killed him - New York Daily News (NY) -
February 23, 2018 - page 11
February 23, 2018 | New York Daily News (NY) | ROCCO PARASCANDOLA NEW YORK DAILY NEWS | Page 11

A KNIFE-WIELDING Bronx man who was shot dead by cops last month spent his final frantic
seconds advancing on two NYPD officers, according to body-cam video the department released
T hursday.

T he footage was recorded during a Jan. 29 nighttime encounter at Prospect Ave. and E. 181st St. in
Belmont.

T he street was too dark to allow for a clear view of Michael H ansf ord
landlord around a parked car, at which point police showed up.

M ichael H ansf ord, 52, as he chased his

But officers from the 48th Precinct are heard telling Hansford 22 times to drop the Rambo-style
knife (photo) he was brandishing, said Inspector Kevin Maloney, who heads the NYPD's Force
Investigation Division.

Although the audio is hard to make out, the video shows that the suspect - who earlier had tried to
stab his landlord with a smaller knife in an argument over unpaid rent - told cops to shoot him eight
times during the encounter, police said.

Police stopped short of characterizing the incident as suicide by cop.

"T he guy is saying, 'Shoot me! Shoot me!' "said Deputy Commissioner Stephen Davis, the NYPD's
top spokesman. "[But] I can't get into the guy's mind."

As city policy demands, the Bronx District Attorney' office is investigating the shooting, as is the
NYPD.

But Police Commissioner James O'Neill two days after the shooting said he had viewed the video
and believes the cops acted appropriately.

© Copyrig ht 2018 New York Daily News. All rights reserved.

 
PBA: Don't show slay-by-cop vid - New York Daily News (NY) - February
8, 2018 - page 2
February 8, 2018 | New York Daily News (NY) | Stephen Rex Brown and Graham Rayman | Page 2

T HE CIT Y'S largest police union is asking a judge to stop the NYPD from releasing body camera
footage of a deadly police-involved shooting in the Bronx.

In court papers filed Wednesday, the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association argued the NYPD
shouldn't be allowed to release video in the Jan. 29 shooting of bike messenger M ichael
M ichael
H ansf ord, 52.
H ansf ord

T he PBA wants to bar the release of all body cam videos without a court order, or the participating
officer's consent.

Police shot and killed Hansford after he allegedly attacked his landlord and lunged at cops with a
knife.

© Copyrig ht 2018 New York Daily News. All rights reserved.

 

DA clears Bartlesville officers - TOWNSEND - Bartlesville Examiner-
Enterprise (OK) - February 9, 2018 - page A1
February 9, 2018 | Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise (OK) | Tim Hudson | Page A1

District Attorney Kevin Buchanan announced Friday that he will not pursue charges against
Bartlesville police officers involved in the Jan. 17 shooting death of Geraldine T ownsend
Bartlesville.

Geraldine Townsend of

Buchanan received the report from the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation about its
investigation into the shooting incident on Feb. 1. T he report consisted of more than 200
documents, recorded interviews and scene photos. Buchanan based his decision on the report's
findings.

Here' is Buchanan's statement:

On Jan. 17th, Bartlesville Police officers executed a search warrant on Maple Street in Bartlesville
prior to 10 p.m. An officer had witnessed what he believed to be an illegal drug sale at the
residence. T he purchaser of the drugs was stopped and drugs in his possession were confirmed.
T his was the basis for the issuance of the search warrant.

Officers discussed the execution of the warrant before going to Maple Street, with specific
assignments being given to each. Officers arrived and before approaching the house, one officer
turned on his personal cellphone and placed it on the front of his ballistic vest which recorded both
audio and video portions of the events that followed. Bartlesville officers do not have city issued
"body cameras."

One officer loudly knocked on the front door and announced "Police, Search Warrant" three times.
All reported hearing a voice, the words unintelligible. No apparent attempt was being made to
respond to the door, and officers forced entry into the house. Upon entry, the officers
encountered Michael Livingston who complied with commands to lie on the ground.

As Livingston was being secured, additional officers began to look through the rest of the house
for any other occupants. Almost immediately, one officer (Officer 1) felt something strike his leg
and heard a "popping noise." Officer 1 then saw Geraldine T ownsend
Geraldine Townsend in or near the doorway of a
bedroom pointing a handgun at him. Officer 1 began yelling at her to drop the gun. A fellow officer
(Officer 2), seeing Officer 1 seeking cover and hearing his commands, got in position to help.
Officer 2 was struck in the face, saw the gun held by Townsend and returned fire striking her once
in the chest. Officer 2 later had a BB surgically removed from his face. Officers and emergency
personnel both rendered aide to Townsend but were unable to prevent her passing.

T he eventual search of the home produced what the state believes is marijuana, monitors
displaying the approaches from both the front and back of the home, and a police band radio on
and monitoring the Bartlesville Police channel. These all led to some of the charges filed against

Livingston. At no point in the events outlined above, from the decision to conduct surveillance to
conclusion of the processing the scene of the shooting was Livingston's former father-in-law, a
Bartlesville Reserve officer, involved in any way.

T he most consequential items found in the house are the replica BB guns, one of which T ownsend
had been given to "defend" herself.

T wo attached pages contain photos of the replica pistols and real handguns. Townsend was using
the one depicted with the yellow tag attached (Umarex T PD 45). Below it is an actual 9mm
handgun (Sig Sauer P250). T he second page contains revolvers. T he top one (Bear River Revolver)
was found in the house near the suspected marijuana. T he bottom is an internet image of an
actual Ruger .357 magnum revolver. T his author was not personally familiar with the degree to
which some of the replica handguns are manufactured to imitate real guns. But this author is
familiar with the regularity that law enforcement officers encounter these replicas. It is the
intention of this office the use to circumstances of this tragic death to seek a change in the law.
Currently, convicted felons, such as Livingston, are prohibited from possessing firearms. T hat
includes BB guns that have been altered. T he "altered" language is a reference to orange or other
brightly colored tips that were once mandated for other toys, but not BB guns. Convicted felons
know the law. T hey can carry a replica BB gun and not violate the law as long as they have not
altered it, say by removing something intended to indicate that it is not a real gun. But today's
replicas don't need to be altered in any way. So, their desire to carry one begs the question "why."
T he quality of the replication absolutely creates the impression that the person carrying one is in
fact armed. Providing Townsend with the one depicted and planting the idea in her mind that it
should be used to confront an armed police, or other, intruder, directly lead to her death. Charges
against Livingston will be amended to include possession of a firearm after former conviction of a
felony. T his office will initiate the process of asking the Court of Criminal Appeals to revisit its 1971
decision that unaltered BB pistols are not prohibited under the law for convicted felons.

Copyrig ht 2018 Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise, All Rights Reserved.

 
Official: Woman dies in shooting - OSBI called to - Bartlesville Examiner-
Enterprise (OK) - January 18, 2018 - page A1
January 18, 2018 | Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise (OK) | Tim Hudson | Page A1

A 72-year old Bartlesville woman has died after an officer-involved shooting Wednesday night in
west Bartlesville.

Geraldine
According to a Bartlesville Police Department update, the person shot was 72-year-old Geraldine
T ownsend.
T ownsend

BPD Capt. Jay Hastings said Bartlesville police and Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation agents
worked "through the night investigating an officer-involved shooting in the 1600 block of SW
Maple."

"T he incident began at approximately 9:30 p.m. Wednesday. Six Bartlesville police officers were at
the residence in the process of serving a search warrant for the sale of illegal drugs," he said.

"Four officers entered into the residence and encountered 50-year-old Mike Anthony Livingston
who was the suspect in the sale of illegal drugs. While taking Livingston into custody officers heard
shots and two officers were struck with some type of projectile. T he shots came from 72-year-old
Geraldine T ownsend, who is believed to be Livingston's mother," he said.
Geraldine T ownsend

Geraldine Townsend pointing what appeared to be a semi-automatic
"Officers observed Geraldine T ownsend
handgun at them and one officer returned fire striking Townsend once in the upper body,"
Hastings said.

Hastings said one of the officers and Townsend were transported to Jane Phillips Medical Center
where Townsend later died from her injuries.

"T he officer transported to the hospital received a facial injury and was undergoing surgery this
morning to remove a projectile. T he weapon Townsend used appeared to be some type of high
powered pellet handgun which resembled a real gun," he said. "Mike Anthony Livingston was
arrested and transported to the Washington County Detention Facility."

According to jail records Livingston, was arrested on charges on charges of possession of
marijuana with intent to distribute, paraphernalia, possession of firearm or weapon in commission
of felony and feloniously possessing firearm.

"T he OSBI is handling the investigation and it will be reviewed by the Washington County District
Attorney," he said. "Since the OSBI is the investigating agency no further details can be released."

Copyrig ht 2018 Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise, All Rights Reserved.

 
72-year-old Oklahoma woman dies in officer- - Associated Press State
Wire: Oklahoma (OK) - January 18, 2018
January 18, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Oklahoma (OK) | The Associated Press

BART LESVILLE, Okla. (AP) — Police in Oklahoma say a 72-year-old woman was fatally shot after
she fired a high-powered pellet gun at officers during a drug raid.

Bartlesville Police Capt. Jay Hastings says Geraldine T ownsend
while executing a search warrant Wednesday night.

Geraldine Townsend died after officers returned fire

Hastings says officers were arresting her 50-year-old son at a local home when they heard shots.
T wo officers were struck by projectiles.

Hastings says one officer returned fire and struck Townsend in the upper body. She later died at a
local hospital.

One officer was hit by a pellet in the leg. T he other officer was struck in the face and was
hospitalized.

T ownsend's son, Mike Anthony Livingston, was arrested on drug and weapons charges. Hastings
says the Oklahoma Bureau of Investigation is looking into the incident.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Records reveal shooting details - BARTLESVILLE - Bartlesville
Examiner-Enterprise (OK) - January 19, 2018 - page A1
January 19, 2018 | Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise (OK) | Tim Hudson | Page A1

T he affidavit of the man arrested on drug charges provides details into the officer-involved
shooting that killed a 72-year-old woman Wednesday night in west Bartlesville.

According to police reports, dead is 72-year-old Geraldine T ownsend
Anthony Livingston, was arrested on charges of possession of marijuana with intent to distribute,
paraphernalia, possession of firearm or weapon in commission of felony and feloniously
possessing firearm.

Geraldine T ownsend. Her son, 50-year-old Mike

According to the case's probable cause affidavit, the incident began around 9:30 p.m. Wednesday
when Bartlesville Police Department officers served a search warrant at a residence in the 1600
block of SW Maple.

T he warrant was reportedly pursuant to a surveillance on the residence that reportedly revealed
that a "hand-to-hand transaction" had taken place. Police stopped the vehicle that had left the
residence and "marijuana was recovered."

When police arrived to serve the search warrant, they said they observed "surveillance cameras on
the front of the residence."

Reportedly six officers had been involved in the service and, when officers announced "police
department search warrant," officers said they heard shouting from inside the house and used a
"door ram tool" to make entry into the residence. Authorities could "smell the odor of marijuana"
immediately and recognized Livingston in the living room. He was then ordered to the ground and
he reportedly complied.

At that point, police heard "loud popping sounds" and one officer said he felt something hit his right
leg and felt a "sharp burning sensation" in his thigh. He said he then heard more "popping" noises,
and "one additional louder bang."

BPD Capt. Jay Hastings said the shots came from T ownsend.

Geraldine Townsend pointing what appeared to be a semi-automatic
"Officers observed Geraldine T ownsend
handgun at them and one officer returned fire striking Townsend once in the upper body,"
Hastings said.

One of the officers and Townsend were transported to Jane Phillips Medical Center, where
T ownsend later died from her injuries. T he officer reportedly received a facial injury and underwent
surgery Thursday morning to remove a projectile.

T he report stated that police found several baggies of marijuana, one of which was packaged
similar to the one they recovered in the traffic stop.

"A silver revolver type handgun" was also reportedly found on the floor an addition to two other
"CO2 BB/Pellet Guns."

Upon arrival at the jail, Livingston reportedly said "he would be getting out of jail soon and was
going to track drug task force officers down and kill them all." Further, he reportedly said "he was
going to kill their children as well."

T he investigation is in the hands of the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation and will be handed
over to the Washington County district attorney for review.

Bail was set in the case at $500,000.

SHOT S FIRED

T he Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation looked into an officer-involved shooting involving the
Bartlesville Police approximately 15 months ago. Here are the details.

· Oct: 26, 2016: William Clifford Earl Cole, 36, of Copan was killed on Oct. 26, 2016 after attacking
officers who were responding to a domestic disturbance call in the 300 block of SE Edgewood.

A Taser didn't stop Cole who police officers saw chase a female out of the house. Cole, then,
started assaulting one of two officers on the scene. T hat officer fired his weapon and Cole was
shot. He was pronounced dead at Jane Phillips Medical Center. T he OSBI investigated the shooting,
and issued a report to Washington County District Attorney Kevin Buchanan.

· Nov. 29, 2016: Buchanan said he had the OSBI report and would announce his decision on
whether or not to charge the officer soon.

· Dec. 2, 2016: Buchanan announces he will not pursue charges against the Bartlesville Police
officer in the Oct. 26 shooting death of Cole.

· Nov. 3, 2017: T he woman that Cole assaulted, Trina Brown, filed a federal lawsuit against the city
of Bartlesville, and the officer, Corey Boyd, in T ulsa. T he suit alleges the woman was struck by one
of Boyd's bullets, which struck her in the head behind the left ear, traveled down her neck and
lodged in her spine. T he suit contends the city "failed to train Boyd on the proper use of T asers,
proper use of deadly weapons and protection of innocentd citizens."

Copyrig ht 2018 Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise, All Rights Reserved.

 
Woman killed by Bartlesville police allegedly - Tulsa World (OK) -
January 18, 2018
January 18, 2018 | Tulsa World (OK) | Staff Writer Harrison Grimwood

T he woman shot and killed by Bartlesville police officers during a drug raid Wednesday night
allegedly fired a pellet gun at officers as they took the target of the raid into custody.

Geraldine T ownsend, 72, pointed "some type of high-powered pellet handgun" at officers,
Geraldine T ownsend
Bartlesville Police Capt. Jay Hastings said in a prepared statement. T he gun, he said, resembled a
real handgun.

Officers arrested 50-year-old Mike Anthony Livingston, the subject of the search warrant, Hastings
said. Townsend is believed to be Livingston's mother, Hastings said.

"While taking Livingston into custody officers heard shots, and two officers were struck with some
type of projectile," Hastings said.

Four officers had entered the house in the 1600 block of South Maple Avenue in Bartlesville to
serve a drug-related search warrant when the shots were fired about 9:30 p.m. Wednesday.
Livingston and the address were allegedly tied to the sale of drugs.

One officer returned fire, striking Townsend in the upper body. Bartlesville police did not identify the
officer who discharged a service weapon. Townsend allegedly shot one officer in the leg and
another in the face with the pellet gun.

Emergency responders transported Townsend and one officer she shot to a local hospital. Police
initially said her condition "appears to be critical." Townsend died there from her injuries, Hastings
said.

T he officer who was hospitalized was struck in the face.

Livingston was arrested on narcotics and weapons complaints, Hastings said. Livingston was
booked into the Washington County Jail on complaints of possession of marijuana with intent to
distribute, possession of paraphernalia, possession of a firearm in commission of a felony and
possession of eavesdropping equipment, according to jail records.

Bartlesville police turned the investigation over to the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation,
stating that "no further details can be released," according to Hastings.

Livingston's bail was set Thursday afternoon at $500,000, according to a Washington County Jail
official.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Tulsa World. World Publishing  Co.

 
Son of woman fatally shot by Bartlesville police - Tulsa World (OK) -
January 19, 2018
January 19, 2018 | Tulsa World (OK) | Staff Writer Reece Ristau

T he son of a woman who was fatally shot by a Bartlesville police officer on Wednesday was
charged and arraigned in Washington County District Court on Friday.

Michael Anthony Livingston, 50, was arraigned on charges of possession of marijuana with intent
to distribute, keeping a house where controlled dangerous substances are sold, possession of
unlawful surveillance equipment, possession of a device capable of receiving police radio
transmissions and threatening to kill a police officer, according to Will Drake, Washington County
assistant district attorney.

Geraldine T ownsend,
Police were serving a drug warrant at Livingston's home when his mother, Geraldine T ownsend
72, fired a pellet gun at officers, the Police Department reported. An officer returned fire, and
T ownsend died later at a Bartlesville hospital.

Drake said Livingston had several prior convictions. In 1988, he pleaded guilty to a burglary charge
in Oklahoma County, court records show.

Livingston was still being held in the Washington County Jail on Friday in lieu of a $500,000 bond.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Tulsa World. World Publishing  Co.

 
Video shows Bartlesville police officer shouting - Tulsa World (OK) -
January 30, 2018
January 30, 2018 | Tulsa World (OK) | Staff Writer Harrison Grimwood

A Bartlesville police officer shouted at a woman to put down a gun during a marijuana raid in which
she was fatally shot, video released Monday shows.

T he woman fired a pellet gun at officers in the midst of the Jan. 17 confrontation, striking one in
the leg and another in the face, according to the Bartlesville Police Department.

Geraldine T ownsend.
One of the officers shot the woman, identified as 72-year-old Geraldine T ownsend

T he officers have not been identified.

Police raided the residence on allegations that the woman's 50-year-old son, Michael Anthony
Livingston, was distributing marijuana from the home.

Livingston and Townsend resided in the home, located in the 1600 block of South Maple Avenue.
Earlier that week, police reportedly arrested one of Livingston's customers during a traffic stop.

T he video was taken from a camera worn by one of the officers.

Police served the search warrant about 9:30 p.m., knocking and announcing their presence three
times, according to the video. After entering the residence, police reportedly took Livingston into
custody in the living room.

T ownsend reportedly came from a bedroom and confronted officers with the pellet gun.

"Put that f---- — gun down, put the f---- — gun down," an officer shouts on the video.

An officer opens fire, shooting Townsend at least once. Livingston yells at officers that T ownsend
is wielding a pellet gun.

"It's a BB gun," Livingston shouts. "T hat my mother, man; that's a BB gun."

Livingston pleads with officers as they take him out of the house, asking multiple times to see his
mother.

"Please, man, y'all killed my momma," Livingston can be heard telling police in the video. "She didn't
know — she was asleep. Go look at her."

"She shot me; shut up," an officer yells.

T ownsend and one of the injured officers were taken to a hospital, where Townsend died.

T he officer Townsend shot in the face was the officer who shot her, Bartlesville Police Capt. Jay
Hastings said.

In the video, other officers surround their wounded colleague to inspect his injuries after Livingston
is in custody.

T he wounded officer, who appears to still be holding his service weapon, says he saw T ownsend
"pointing a … gun."

"Looks like she stopped and shot Steven (sic), and then I come back around to cover him and she
point it at me again and blam," the officer states in the video. "And then I f---- — shot."

Hastings said the officer who shot the woman is on paid administrative leave pending an
investigation by the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation. A report by the OSBI will be
forwarded to the Washington County District Attorney's Office to determine whether the shooting
of Townsend was justified.

Livingston was booked into Washington County jail, where he is being held in lieu of a $500,000
bond. At some point after his arrest, he allegedly threatened to kill the officers involved in the raid.

Washington County prosecutors charged Livingston with unlawful possession of a controlled drug
with intent to distribute, keeping a house where controlled substances are sold, unlawful
possession of surveillance equipment, possession of a listening device and threatening to perform
an act of violence.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Tulsa World. World Publishing  Co.

 
No charges warranted in Bartlesville officer- - Tulsa World (OK) -
February 10, 2018
February 10, 2018 | Tulsa World (OK) | Staff Writer Harrison Grimwood

A Washington County prosecutor has determined that the fatal use of force by a Bartlesville police
officer on a suspect's elderly mother does not warrant criminal charges.

District Attorney Kevin Buchanan's letter dated Feb. 9 effectively rules the fatal shooting justified.

Bartlesville police served a search warrant on Jan. 17 at a house in the 1600 block of South Maple
Avenue in Bartlesville. While serving the warrant, Geraldine T ownsend
high-powered pellet handgun" at officers, Bartlesville Police Capt. Jay Hastings said in January. T he
pellet gun resembled a real handgun.

Geraldine T ownsend, 72, pointed "some type of

Officers served the warrant at the location after arrested a person who allegedly purchased
marijuana from 50-year-old Mike Anthony Livingston, the subject of the search warrant. While
arresting Livingston, officers reportedly heard shots and two officers "were struck with some type
of projectile," Hastings said in January.

One officer returned fire, striking Townsend in the upper body. Bartlesville police have not identify
the officer who discharged their service weapon.

Emergency responders transported Townsend and one officer to an area hospital, where she died
from her injuries.

Buchanan states in the letter that law enforcers found marijuana, surveillance equipment and a
police band radio monitoring the Bartlesville police.

"T he most consequential items found in the house are the replica BB guns, one of which Ms.
T ownsend has been given to 'defend' herself," Buchanan states.

Buchanan described the pellet guns as replicas of a large-caliber revolver and a 9mm pistol. He
alleged Livingston possessed the guns to skirt laws prohibiting felons from possessing firearms.

"T he quality of the replication absolutely creates the impression that the person carrying one is in
Geraldine Townsend with (the replica) and planting the
fact armed," Buchanan said. "Providing Geraldine T ownsend
idea in her mind that it should be used to confront an armed police, or other intruder, directly lead
(sic) to her death."

Prosecutors charged Livingston with unlawful possession of a controlled drug with intent to
distribute, keeping a house where controlled substances are sold, unlawful possession of
surveillance equipment, possession of police radio, threaten to perform an act of violence.
Buchanan said he intends to amend Livingston's charges to include possession of a firearm after a

former conviction of a felony.

Buchanan also states his office will ask the court of criminal appeals to revisit a law that does not
prohibit convicted felons from possession unaltered pellet guns.

T he alterations he refers to in the letter is the removal of the orange or yellow tips that "were once
mandated for other toys, but not BB guns."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Tulsa World. World Publishing  Co.

 

DA: No charges in death of man shot by police in - Associated Press
State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA) - October 9, 2018
October 9, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA)

PHILADELPHIA (AP) — T he Philadelphia District Attorney's office says no charges will be filed in the
death of a man shot by police in his home after he fired at them, apparently mistaking them for
intruders.

Authorities said members of the SWAT  team were seeking the grandson of 59-year-old Ricardo
Ricardo
Gidding s  on a weapons violation when they entered the Germantown residence Aug. 6.
Gidding s

Police say Giddings fired four rounds from a stairway, striking an officer, and was killed by another
officer's return fire. Giddings' wife was shot in the abdomen and hospitalized. T he grandson being
sought later turned himself in.

Prosecutors said Tuesday the shooting was justified because the officer "reasonably believed he
was in danger of death or serious bodily injury.

Police commissioner Richard Ross called the shooting "an all-out, absolute tragedy."

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Authorities name Philadelphia man killed in police - Associated Press
State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA) - August 9, 2018
August 9, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA)

PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Authorities have released the name of a man fatally shot by police after he
fired on them at his Philadelphia home, apparently mistaking them for intruders.

Philadelphia police say 59-year-old Ricardo Gidding s
when he fired four rounds from a pistol at the SWAT  team members early Monday. One round hit
and seriously injured an officer.

Ricardo Gidding s  was on the stairs to the home's second floor

Another officer then fired five shots, hitting Giddings in his chest and legs. Giddings died later that
day at a hospital.

Giddings 67-year-old wife, Joann, was shot in the abdomen. She left the home through a second-
floor rear bedroom window but fell onto a rear patio deck. She remained hospitalized T hursday.

T he SWAT  team members were searching for the couple's 20-year-old grandson on a weapons
violation warrant. He later turned himself in.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
No charges to be filed after Philadelphia Police - Metro - Philadelphia
(PA) - October 9, 2018
October 9, 2018 | Metro - Philadelphia (PA) | Sarah Luoma

T he Philadelphia District Attorney's office says they will not press charges in the shooting death of
59-year-old Ricardo Gidding s

Ricardo Gidding s  that took place on August 6.

Giddings was shot by officers in his home who were there with the assistance of the SWAT  team
to arrest his grandson on a weapons violation.

Ricardo Gidding s  mistook the Philadelphia Police for an intruder and fired four shots from a
Ricardo Gidding s
stairway inside the home, shooting Officer Jaison Potts, a 20-year veteran on the force, in the face.
Officer Angel Vasquez returned fire during the unfortunate incident, killing Giddings.

Potts was listed in critical condition following the shooting. Giddings' wife Joann was also injured.
She sustained gunshot wounds to the abdomen and was hospitalized for her injuries.

. @PhillyPolice Officer Jaison Potts, a married father of 3, is in critical condition at the hospital after
being shot int eh face while serving a warrant in the Germantown neighborhood this morning:
https://t.co/UHPl5T WT eE pic.twitter.com/uO2ICpye3J

— NBC10 Philadelphia (@NBCPhiladelphia) August 6, 2018

Philadelphia Police Officer cleared in shooting

T he DA found that Vasquez "reasonably believed he was in danger of death or serious bodily
injury," prompting them not to pursue charges.

T he Philadelphia District Attorney's Office issued a statement in the matter.

"Our office has carefully reviewed the available relevant materials about this matter, including
interviews of multiple witnesses, and the investigative reports from relevant city agencies. We have
concluded that the officer reasonably believed he was in danger of death or serious bodily injury.
T he officer was, therefore, legally justified in using deadly force and in this circumstance no criminal
charges are warranted."

Following the incident on August 6, Giddings grandson did show up. T he family of Ricardo
Ricardo
Gidding s
Gidding s  also shared with Action News that they did not hear the Philadelphia Police announce
their presence at the residence.

Police commissioner Richard Ross called the shooting incident "an all-out, absolute tragedy."

Copyrig ht, 2018, Metro. All Rights Reserved.

 
Officer won't be charged in fatal shooting - - Philadelphia Inquirer, The
(PA) - October 10, 2018 - page B01
October 10, 2018 | Philadelphia Inquirer, The (PA) | Tommy Rowan STAFF WRITER | Page B01

A Philadelphia police officer will not face charges after fatally wounding a 59-year-old Germantown
homeowner in an August shootout that started when he mistook for intruders the officers who
came to his house at 6 a.m. to execute a search warrant, the District Attorney's Office said
T uesday.

T he office said a review of the shooting led to the conclusion that Officer Angel Vasquez had
"reasonably believed he was in danger of death or serious bodily injury."

Police Commissioner Richard Ross had called the Aug. 6 death of the homeowner, Ricardo
Ricardo
Gidding s , "an all-out absolute tragedy."
Gidding s

Members of the SWAT  team arrived at Giddings' house on the 4800 block of Knox Street with a
search warrant and hoped to question Giddings' grandson in an unrelated shooting. Authorities
said the officers knocked and announced themselves several times before entering the home, but
Giddings thought they were intruders and opened fire, hitting one officer, Jaison Potts, 49, in the
face.

Vasquez, Potts' partner, returned fire, hitting Giddings in the chest and a leg, wounds that proved
fatal. Giddings' 67-year-old wife, Joann, was hit in the stomach by a ricocheted shotgun pellet as
she tried to run out of the house. Her injuries were not life-threatening.

In a statement T uesday, the prosecutor's office said, "We have concluded that the officer
reasonably believed he was in danger of death or serious bodily injury. T he officer was, therefore,
legally justified in using deadly force, and, in this circumstance, no criminal charges are warranted."

SWAT  officers serve around 300 warrants a year and had not fired a shot since 2015, Ross said at
the time of the shooting. He called it "an absolute unfortunate circumstance all the way around."

T he announcement comes as Krasner's office has pledged to apply more scrutiny to police-
involved shootings.

Ben Waxman, District Attorney Larry Krasner's spokesperson, said Tuesday that the office
investigates any incident in which an officer discharges a weapon.

"And in this case, the facts were very clear that they were in a very difficult situation walking into a
house where they were being shot at," Waxman said of the officers.

Potts, a 20-year veteran of the police force, walked into Temple University Hospital shortly after
the shooting and underwent surgery to remove the bullet from his jaw.

T he grandson, whom police did not identify, was not at the house. He later turned himself in to
police.

John McNesby, president of Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 5, the officers' union, said T uesday
that he wasn't surprised that the officer wasn't charged.

"T hey were serving a search warrant, they were fired upon, and the officer returned fire. T he
officer was doing his job, so I don't know what there would be charges for," he said.
"Unfortunately, sometimes policing isn't pretty. It's unfortunate someone lost their life that day,
but the job was carried out. SWAT  has a job to do."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Philadelphia Inquirer

 

 
Headnote 

gunfire. 

Grandfather dies, officer shot in gunfire 

A grandfather, thinking a SWAT team serving an arrest warrant early Monday morning were burglars, opened fire

on police, hitting one officer in the face inside his Germantown home. The man was wounded in the exchange of

The alleged shooter, identified as the 59-year-old grandfather of the man targeted in the warrant, died Monday

afternoon from his injuries at a hospital hours after the incident in the 4800 block of Knox Street, NBC-10 and The

Associated Press reported. 

Officials said the grandfather thought someone was breaking into his home and opened fire. 

"These officers, according to at least one witness, did knock and announce more than once, witnesses heard that.

After taking some time to get past at least two doors that's when they came under fire," Police Commissioner

Richard Ross told reporters. 

Later, he said, "It appears at this point that the homeowner thought someone was breaking into his home." 

"And he went about the business of protecting his home, not knowing that it was the police at the door that he

RAID 5A RAID 1A 

was firing upon," the police chief added. 

"This is an all-out, absolute tragedy all the way around," Ross said Monday afternoon. 

The SWAT team came under fire after it went through one door at the house about 6 a.m. Monday. Shots were

fired through a second glass door and officer Jaison Potts was hit near his jaw. The gunman was hit several times

in an exchange with other officers, authorities said. 

The man who shot at the officers was critically wounded in the shootout. A 67-year-old woman at the home was

also wounded as she left through the back door during the incident. Authorities had not released their names after

they were taken to Einstein Medical Center, according to news reports. 

The woman was listed in stable condition after she was hit in the abdomen by what police think was shotgun

pellet. She also sustained back injuries while running out of the rear of the home. 

Officials said the 20-yearold grandson being sought in the gun violation warrant was not in the residence. He

surrendered to police later on Monday. 

Other details emerged during the afternoon. 

Johnson told 6-aBc. 

"My dad thought that someone was breaking in. So, he has a registered firearm and he did shoot," Laquisha

Johnson said her father, Ricardo Giddings, fired four shots at police. SWAT fired five shots back, killing the

homeowner and hitting her mother, Joanne Giddings, in the leg. 

Ross said the 49-year-old officer suffered a broken jaw and may have artery damage along with other injuries. He

added that Potts walked into Temple University hospital and was expected to survive. 

Potts is a 20-year veteran of the police force. Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney said the married father of three was

due to start a vacation on Monday, according to AP. 

Ross said the man may not have heard police announce their presence due to a television set being on. He said

police made the announcement more than once and neighbors reported hearing them do so. 

"It is important to note that we did not fire until we were fired upon, but sadly it doesn't change the circumstances

that ... all accounts, this is just tragedy," Ross told The AP. 

Asked whether the situation could have been avoided, Ross said "I don't see how." 

The police chief said SWAT serves about 300 such "high-risk" warrants each year without incident, and the last

time SWAT members even fired their weapons was in 2015. In each of the three previous incidents, officers were

shot while making entry, he said. 

In a Facebook post, Philadelphia police said Potts did not sustain any life-threatening injuries: 

Company / organization:

Name: Temple University; NAICS: 611310; Name: Facebook Inc; NAICS: 518210,

bbooker@phillytrib.com 

(215) 893-5749 
 
 

'An all-out, absolute tragedy' - Man, apparently - Philadelphia Inquirer,
The (PA) - August 7, 2018 - page A01
August 7, 2018 | Philadelphia Inquirer, The (PA) | Chris Palmer and Joseph A. Gambardello STAFF WRITERS |
Page A01

Philadelphia police shot and killed a 59-year-old Germantown homeowner and wounded his wife
Monday when a SWAT  team showed up at 6 a.m. looking to arrest his grandson and the man
mistook them for intruders and opened fire, hitting one officer in the face.

Police Commissioner Richard Ross said the man - whom he did not identify but whom property and
Ricardo Gidding s  - apparently began shooting in an attempt to
other public records identify as Ricardo Gidding s
protect his home. His wife, 67, was struck by a police round as she tried to run out of the house,
Ross said. She was hospitalized in stable condition.

T he officer, Jaison Potts, 49, was able to walk into Temple University hospital but had to be
sedated and was listed in critical condition. Ross said Monday night that a bullet remained lodged in
Potts' jaw.

Ross said officers knocked and announced themselves several times before seeking to enter the
home to arrest the man's grandson, 20, wanted on weapons violations. Ross said a television was
on inside the home, so it was possible that the homeowner did not hear the warnings.

T he grandson, whom police did not identify, was not there. He turned himself in to police later
Monday, according to Ross.

T he commissioner called what happened in the the early-morning hours "an all-out, absolute
tragedy." It was the fifth time in 2018 that city police have shot someone and the second fatal
shooting, according to police statistics.

Potts, a 20-year veteran of the force who is married and has three children, is expected to survive
but will have a long recovery. He was expected to undergo surgery T uesday, Ross said.

Mayor Kenney, who went to the hospital where Potts was being treated, said the officer was
supposed to start vacation after his shift ended Monday.

T he shooting occurred about 6 a.m. on the 4800 block of Knox Street. Ross said SWAT  officers
"knocked and announced their presence at least three times, indicating they had a search warrant
at that address."

When they did not receive a response, they broke through a front door, Ross said.

Inside, the man had grabbed a handgun, and thinking they were in danger, urged his wife to flee
out the back of the house, Ross said.

Before officers broke through a second door to gain entry to the house, the homeowner began
shooting, according to the commissioner. He fired four bullets; one hit Potts in the face near his
jaw.

Potts' partner, whom Ross did not identify, fired a shotgun five times in return, Ross said. At least
one round hit the homeowner.

T he man's wife was struck in the stomach by a shotgun pellet that ricocheted before striking her,
Ross said. She also suffered back injuries trying to flee the house.

T he homeowner and his wife were taken to Einstein Medical Center. He was later declared dead.
She was listed late Monday in stable condition.

Ross said SWAT  officers serve around 300 warrants a year and had not fired a shot since 2015.

Monday's shooting was "just a tragedy," he said. "It's an absolute unfortunate circumstance all the
way around."

Under department policy, the officer who fired the shots will be placed on desk duty pending the
outcome of an investigation by the Police Department's officer-involved shooting unit.

CPalmer@phillynews.com

215-854-2817

@cs_palmer

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Philadelphia Inquirer

 
DEADLY MISTAKE - Homeowner dead after shooting - Philadelphia
Daily News (PA) - August 7, 2018 - page 03
August 7, 2018 | Philadelphia Daily News (PA) | Chris Palmer and Joseph A. Gambardello STAFF WRITERS |
Page 03

PHILADELPHIA police shot and killed a 59-year-old Germantown homeowner and wounded his wife
Monday when a SWAT  team showed up at 6 a.m. looking to arrest his grandson and the man
mistook them for intruders and opened fire, hitting one officer in the face.

Police Commissioner Richard Ross said the man - whom he did not identify but whom property and
Ricardo Gidding s  - apparently began shooting in an attempt to
other public records identify as Ricardo Gidding s
protect his home. His wife, 67, was struck by a police round as she tried to run out of the house,
Ross said. She was hospitalized in stable condition.

T he officer, Jaison Potts, 49, was able to walk into Temple University hospital but had to be
sedated and was listed in critical condition. Ross said Monday night that a bullet remained lodged in
Potts' jaw.

Ross said officers knocked and announced themselves several times before seeking to enter the
home to arrest the man's grandson, 20, wanted on weapons violations. Ross said a television was
on inside the home, so it was possible that the homeowner did not hear the warnings.

T he grandson, whom police did not identify, was not there. He turned himself in to police later
Monday, according to Ross.

T he commissioner called what happened in the the early-morning hours "an all-out, absolute
tragedy." It was the fifth time in 2018 that city police have shot someone and the second fatal
shooting, according to police statistics.

Potts, a 20-year veteran of the force who is married and has three children, is expected to survive
but will have a long recovery. He was expected to undergo surgery T uesday, Ross said.

Mayor Kenney, who went to the hospital where Potts was being treated, said the officer was
supposed to start vacation after his shift ended Monday.

T he shooting occurred about 6 a.m. on the 4800 block of Knox Street. Ross said SWAT  officers
"knocked and announced their presence at least three times, indicating they had a search warrant
at that address."

When they did not receive a response, they broke through a front door, Ross said.

Inside, the man had grabbed a handgun, and thinking they were in danger, urged his wife to flee
out the back of the house, Ross said.

Before officers broke through a second door to gain entry to the house, the homeowner began
shooting, according to the commissioner. He fired four bullets; one hit Potts in the face near his
jaw.

Potts' partner, whom Ross did not identify, fired a shotgun five times in return, Ross said. At least
one round hit the homeowner.

T he man's wife was struck in the stomach by a shotgun pellet that ricocheted before striking her,
Ross said. She also suffered back injuries trying to flee the house.

T he homeowner and his wife were taken to Einstein Medical Center. He was later declared dead.
She was listed late Monday in stable condition.

Ross said SWAT  officers serve around 300 warrants a year and had not fired a shot since 2015.

Monday's shooting was "just a tragedy," he said. "It's an absolute unfortunate circumstance all the
way around."

Under department policy, the officer who fired the shots will be placed on desk duty pending the
outcome of an investigation by the Police Department's officer-involved shooting unit.

CPalmer@phillynews.com

215-854-2817

@cs_palmer

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Philadelphia Daily News

 

 
Oct. 10--A Philadelphia police officer will not face charges after fatally wounding a 59-year-old Germantown

homeowner in an August shootout that started when he mistook for intruders the officers who came to his house

at 6 a.m. to execute a search warrant, the District Attorney's Office said Tuesday. 

The office said a review of the shooting led to the conclusion that Officer Angel Vasquez had "reasonably believed

he was in danger of death or serious bodily injury." 

Related stories 

------ 

absolute tragedy." 

* Philadelphia police officer shot in face serving warrant in Germantown 

Police Commissioner Richard Ross had called the Aug. 6 death of the homeowner, Ricardo Giddings, "an all-out

Members of the SWAT team arrived at Giddings' house on the 4800 block of Knox Street with a search warrant and

hoped to question Giddings' grandson in an unrelated shooting. Authorities said the officers knocked and

announced themselves several times before entering the home, but Giddings thought they were intruders and

opened fire, hitting one officer, Jaison Potts, 49, in the face. 

Vasquez, Potts' partner, returned fire, hitting Giddings in the chest and a leg, wounds that proved fatal. Giddings'

67-year-old wife, Joann, was hit in the stomach by a ricocheted shotgun pellet as she tried to run out of the house.

Her injuries were not life-threatening. 

In a statement Tuesday, the prosecutor's office said, "We have concluded that the officer reasonably believed he

was in danger of death or serious bodily injury. The officer was, therefore, legally justified in using deadly force,

and, in this circumstance, no criminal charges are warranted." 

SWAT officers serve around 300 warrants a year and had not fired a shot since 2015, Ross said at the time of the

shooting. He called it "an absolute unfortunate circumstance all the way around." 

The announcement comes as Krasner's office has pledged to apply more scrutiny to police-involved shootings. 

Ben Waxman, District Attorney Larry Krasner's spokesperson, said Tuesday that the office investigates any

incident in which an officer discharges a weapon. 

"And in this case, the facts were very clear that they were in a very difficult situation walking into a house where

they were being shot at," Waxman said of the officers. 

READ MORE: Philadelphia police officer shot in face serving warrant in Germantown 

Potts, a 20-year veteran of the police force, walked into Temple University Hospital shortly after the shooting and

underwent surgery to remove the bullet from his jaw. 

The grandson, whom police did not identify, was not at the house. He later turned himself in to police. 

John McNesby, president of Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 5, the officers' union, said Tuesday that he wasn't

surprised that the officer wasn't charged. 

"They were serving a search warrant, they were fired upon, and the officer returned fire. The officer was doing his

job, so I don't know what there would be charges for," he said. "Unfortunately, sometimes policing isn't pretty. It's

unfortunate someone lost their life that day, but the job was carried out. SWAT has a job to do." 

McNesby said he did not consider the decision by the District Attorney's Office "a victory or loss or tie or anything. I

just consider it normal police work." 

CREDIT: By Tommy Rowan 
 
 


Tennessee House OKs bill to limit police oversight - Associated Press
State Wire: Tennessee (TN) - March 14, 2019
March 14, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN) | JONATHAN MATTISE Associated Press

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — T he Tennessee House passed a bill Thursday to limit community
oversight boards that investigate police misconduct, setting up a showdown with the Senate over
whether those local panels should keep the ability to subpoena people to testify or turn over
evidence.

T he House's 66-26 vote comes in the infancy of an oversight board Nashville voted to create in
November. T he referendum was spurred by a fatal shooting of a fleeing armed black man by a
white Nashville officer in July. T he officer faces first-degree murder charges.

T he version the House passed would strip away subpoena power from the panels, while the
Senate could vote next week on a tweaked bill that still lets boards issue subpoenas, but only if a
board-hired special investigator, the police chief or head of police internal affairs gets a judge's
approval.

GOP Senate Speaker Randy McNally and Republican Rep. Michael Curcio of Dickson, the bill's
sponsor, both said the bill is likely headed to a conference committee, where House and Senate
lawmakers to sort out the difference. Curcio argued that the Senate version broadens subpoena
power.

During Thursday's floor discussion, some of Nashville Democratic state lawmakers argued that
the legislature wants to nullify the will of the city's voters. T he GOP-majority chamber voted down
an amendment to exempt Nashville from the requirements.

"Overturning elections just because you don't like the results is not what this body is here to do,"
said Rep. Bo Mitchell, a Nashville Democrat.

Curcio said the bill was setting up necessary guardrails for the oversight panels, including
prohibiting them from limiting membership based on demographics and ensuring that all
documents provided to them will be confidential.

Some Republicans also used the debate to argue that they are showing they have the backs of law
enforcement officials by limiting the boards.

"We stand with our law enforcement officers. We trust them to do their job," House Majority
Leader William Lamberth told reporters T hursday. "T here are lots of procedures in place right now
... to hold officers accountable if they step over the line."

Republican Gov. Bill Lee has already said he supports stripping subpoena power from the panels.

A Senate committee, meanwhile, opted last week to include limited subpoena power in their bill at
the request of the city of Knoxville, which has an oversight board, but has not used subpoena
power in about two decades of existence.

T he bill is ready for a Senate floor vote.

Memphis also has a police oversight panel, but that group lacks subpoena power.

Nashville's new oversight board has subpoena power and requires that four of the seven members
should live in "economically distressed communities."

T he Fraternal Order of Police opposed the measure and unsuccessfully attempted to block the
vote in the buildup of the election.

T he local police union has also been running a digital campaign to sway public opinion in favor of
Daniel H ambrick's fatal shooting in
Andrew Delke, the Nashville officer charged in 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
July.

T his week, the Nashville Fraternal Order of Police released a web video that shows a man shooting
a melon at close range, saying it's the type of handgun Hambrick was holding while Delke chased
him.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
Prosecutor files charge in police shooting of - Associated Press State
Wire: Tennessee (TN) - September 28, 2018
September 28, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN) | JONATHAN MATTISE Associated Press

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — A white Tennessee police officer was charged with criminal homicide
T hursday after surveillance footage appeared to show him chasing a black man and opening fire
as the man fled from the officer in July.

And a newly released arrest affidavit says the officer was looking for a reason to stop a white
sedan, later mistakenly zeroed in on another car and then killed the armed fleeing man without
knowing who he was or whether he was connected to either vehicle.

Nashville District Attorney Glenn Funk said Thursday that he requested a warrant to charge officer
Andrew Delke in the death of 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
probable cause and signed Delke's arrest warrant after a magistrate judge ruled earlier T hursday
that there wasn't enough evidence.

Daniel H ambrick. A General Sessions judge found

T he incident reignited questions about policing of Nashville's black community. T he outcry has
stirred enough support to place a question on the city's November ballot about creating a citizen
oversight board for the police force.

Delke's attorney, David Raybin, said Delke is out on $25,000 bail, will plead not guilty and his
attorneys plan to "vigorously defend this case and put this matter to a jury."

Nashville Fraternal Order of Police President James Smallwood was shown in a video on the
organization's Facebook page condemning the charge.

"T his case is a politically inspired rush to judgment," Smallwood said. "T his is not a case of an
innocent, unarmed civilian shot for no reason."

T he video from a nearby school released last month shows the 25-year-old officer chase and
shoot Hambrick on July 26 as Hambrick fled on a sidewalk near an apartment complex.

According to the arrest affidavit presented in court T hursday, Delke was tailing a white sedan while
looking for stolen vehicles and known juvenile offenders, but found the car wasn't stolen. He
"continued to follow to see if he could develop a reason to stop the Impala," and never saw the
driver or determined how many people were inside, it says.

Delke turned on his emergency lights as the car pulled onto the interstate, but followed policy and
didn't pursue. Instead, he followed from a distance, the affidavit says. Eventually, Delke lost track
of the car and pulled into an apartment parking lot and mistook a different white four-door sedan
for the one he was seeking, it says. Several people were in the area as Delke stopped nearby, one
of them Hambrick, who began to run, the affidavit says.

Delke chased Hambrick and yelled at him to stop, though the officer didn't know the fleeing man's
identity, the affidavit says. Delke believed Hambrick may have been connected to the car Delke
misidentified, but didn't know for sure, the affidavit says.

Delke saw a gun in Hambrick's hand as the chase continued, and Hambrick wouldn't drop it despite
Delke's instructions, the affidavit says. Delke "stopped, assumed a firing position, and aimed his
service weapon," firing four times, it says. One shot hit Hambrick's back, another his torso and a
third the back of his head. T he fourth shot missed him.

Funk said the charging method lets the case be presented in open court as transparently as
possible, since grand jury proceedings are secret. T he case will be presented to a judge, who will
decide whether to send it to a grand jury.

Nashville Mayor David Briley, who announced a comprehensive review of policing procedures when
the video was released publicly last month, said he fully supports the police, but officers must
account for their actions when they have been accused of misconduct.

Daniel H ambrick's mother to express my condolences for her loss,"

"In August, I spoke with Daniel H ambrick
Briley said in a statement. "I assured her that we would show respect for the life of her son,
because his life mattered. At that time, Ms. Hambrick asked for justice for Daniel. T he District
Attorney's decision to file charges in this case is a necessary step toward that end."

American Civil Liberties Union of Tennessee Executive Director Hedy Weinberg called Delke's arrest
a "crucial first step in setting the wheels of accountability and justice in motion," while cautioning
that Delke must receive due process.

Nashville Police Chief Steve Anderson offered condolences to Hambrick's family. He also said the
shooting will impact Delke and his family forever.

Anderson said he respects the justice system in Davidson County and the state.

He said because of Thursday's action, Delke has been decommissioned, which means he has had
to turn over his gun but is working at a desk job and is still getting paid.

Raybin, Delke's attorney, said the officer was "following the law and his training" and was
protecting himself, other officers on the way, and the public.

NAACP Tennessee State Conference President Gloria Sweet-Love said that if Delke is convicted,
then real justice will be served.

"When you kill a young black boy, you are killing a young citizen and you are making it difficult for us
to live as one," Sweet-Love said T hursday. 

____

Kimberlee Kruesi in Nashville contributed to this report.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Autopsy: Black man shot by officer hit 3 times - Associated Press State
Wire: Tennessee (TN) - October 12, 2018
October 12, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN)

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — An autopsy report says a black man killed by a white Tennessee police
officer died from three gunshot wounds that hit him from behind.

T he Tennessean cited the report that calls 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
says he was hit twice in the back and once in the back of the head.

Daniel H ambrick's death a homicide and

Nashville District Attorney Glenn Funk secured a warrant last month charging officer Andrew Delke
with criminal homicide in the death. Surveillance footage appears to show Delke chasing Hambrick
and opening fire as the man fled from the officer in July.

Authorities say it began with a traffic stop and that Hambrick had a gun.

Delke's attorney has said he plans to vigorously defend his client, who he says was following the
law and his training.

___

Information from: T he T ennessean, http://www.tennessean.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Family sues Nashville, officer for $30M in fatal - Associated Press News
Service, The - March 11, 2019
March 11, 2019 | Associated Press News Service, The | JONATHAN MATTISE Associated Press

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — T he family of a black man killed by a Nashville police officer filed a
federal lawsuit Monday, naming the city and the white officer who fatally shot the man from
behind as he ran with a gun.

Attorney Joy Kimbrough said the suit filed in federal court in Nashville seeks $30 million in
connection with the fatal shooting last July of Daniel H ambrick

Daniel H ambrick, 25.

T he lawsuit names Officer Andrew Delke and Nashville's government as defendants, arguing that
the city's police department has a culture of "fear, violence, racism and impunity" and that the
shooting was at least partly motivated by race.

T he police department blasted the lawsuit as an "inflammatory attack" on the agency, its officers
and its training academy.

T he suit is unfolding as Delke is slowly nearing trial on state first-degree murder charges. Delke is
due back in court next month for another pretrial hearing in his criminal case, but a trial date is still
yet to be determined.

T he shooting has sparked anger and tension in Nashville, mirroring the national attention on cases
in recent years of young black men who have died in shootings by police. Hambrick's death
prompted a November referendum passed by voters to create a citizen oversight board for
Nashville's police force.

T he lawsuit filed by Hambrick's family alleges that the police department and Delke violated
Hambrick's constitutional rights through excessive force and race discrimination. It also brings a
wrongful death claim against Delke. Additionally, the suit said, the police department's training
programs "reinforce the message that officers should live in fear of citizens and that violence is an
officer's only way to avoid being killed by citizens."

Nashville police department spokesman Don Aaron said his agency "looks forward to vigorously
defending this lawsuit and correcting the plethora of misinformation it contains."

Delke's attorney, David Raybin, did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the
lawsuit.

In the criminal case proceedings, Delke's attorneys have argued that the officer, who was also 25
at the time of the shooting, had followed his training and state law when he saw Hambrick had a
gun. But District Attorney General Glenn Funk has said Delke could have sought cover and called
for help.

According to Delke's arrest affidavit, the officer pulled into an apartment parking lot and mistook a
car for one he had been following while looking for stolen vehicles and known juvenile offenders.
Several people were in the area at the time, including Hambrick, who began to run, according to
the affidavit.

T he affidavit says Delke believed Hambrick may have been connected to the car he thought might
be stolen, and he chased him and yelled at him to stop. It says Delke shot Hambrick in the back,
torso and the back of his head. A fourth shot missed him.

Neither side has disputed that Hambrick had a gun. But the defense has said the weapon became
pointed at Delke during the chase, and prosecutors have cast doubt about that.

Meanwhile, the Nashville Fraternal Order of Police has been running a public relations offensive
aimed at boosting Delke's public image while casting scrutiny on Hambrick.

James Smallwood, the local police union president, said the lawsuit contains "so many false
allegations and hateful stereotypes about police officers that it bears no resemblance to reality."

Copyrig ht (c) 2019 The Associated Press All Rights Reserved

 
The Latest: Attorney: Officer followed law in - Associated Press:
Clarksville Metro Area (TN) - September 27, 2018
September 27, 2018 | Associated Press: Clarksville Metro Area (TN)

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — T he Latest on a Nashville police officer charged in the shooting death of
a black man. (all times local):

T he attorney for a Nashville police officer who fatally shot a fleeing man says his client was
following the law and his training.

At a news conference T hursday, attorney David Raybin said he plans to vigorously defend officer
Andrew Delke against the criminal homicide charge that he faces. Raybin said he wants the case to
go to a jury.

Nashville District Attorney Glenn Funk secured a warrant Thursday charging Delke in the death of
Daniel H ambrick.
25-year-old Daniel H ambrick

Raybin said Delke is out on a $25,000 bail, adding that the officer appreciates support from fellow
officers and the community and is looking forward to being vindicated.

Raybin suggested that there may be additional video footage of the incident.

A newly released affidavit says a Nashville police officer who shot a fleeing man had been pursuing
a car that he mistook for another, and wasn't sure the man he killed was connected to either
vehicle.

T he affidavit was released Thursday by court officials the case of officer Andrew Delke. Nashville
District Attorney Glenn Funk secured a warrant Thursday charging Delke with criminal homicide in
the death of 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
Hambrick and opening fire as the man fled from the officer in July.

Daniel H ambrick. Surveillance footage appeared to show Delke chasing

T he court document says incident began when Delke tailed a white sedan while looking for stolen
vehicles and known juvenile offenders, though he found the car wasn't stolen. It says he "continued
to follow to see if he could develop a reason to stop the Impala," in which he never saw the driver
or determined how many people were inside.

4:30 p.m.

___

4:15 p.m.

___

2 p.m.

A prosecutor is seeking to charge a white Tennessee police officer with homicide after surveillance
footage appeared to show him chasing a black man and opening fire as the man fled from the
officer.

Nashville District Attorney Glenn Funk says he requested a warrant Thursday to charge officer
Andrew Delke in 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
Sessions judge found probable cause and signed Delke's arrest warrant Thursday after a
magistrate judge ruled earlier Thursday that there wasn't enough evidence.

Daniel H ambrick's death. T he Tennessean reports that a General

Surveillance video shows the 25-year-old officer chased and shot Hambrick in July as Hambrick ran
away. Authorities say it began with a traffic stop and Hambrick had a gun.

Funk says charging by warrant lets the case be presented in open court as transparently as
possible.

Copyrig ht 2018 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

 
Judge grants charged officer's push to seal court - Associated Press
State Wire: Tennessee (TN) - February 26, 2019
February 26, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN)

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — A judge has ruled that multiple court documents from legal discovery will
be filed under seal in the case against a white Nashville police officer who fatally shot an armed
black man from behind in July.

In Officer Andrew Delke's case, Davidson County Criminal Court Judge Monte Watkins on T uesday
cited state Supreme Court precedent, which says many pretrial discovery records would likely
impair a defendant's fair trial rights if made public.

Nashville District Attorney General Glenn Funk wanted the documents public, saying Delke's case
doesn't warrant sealing of discovery previously reserved for Nashville criminal court cases involving
child victims or rape.

Defense attorney David Raybin said making the documents public would let the case be tried
through news coverage.

Delke is charged with first-degree murder in 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick

Daniel H ambrick's death.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
Not guilty plea for Nashville officer in fatal - Associated Press:
Clarksville Metro Area (TN) - February 13, 2019
February 13, 2019 | Associated Press: Clarksville Metro Area (TN)

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — An attorney has entered a not guilty plea for a white Nashville police
officer indicted on a first-degree murder charge in the fatal shooting of an armed black man.

Defense attorney David Raybin entered the plea Wednesday for officer Andrew Delke in Davidson
County Criminal Court. Delke didn't appear in court for Wednesday's arraignment.

Delke shot 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick

Daniel Hambrick from behind during a foot chase in July.

T he defense has argued Delke followed his training and state law in shooting after he saw
Hambrick had a gun. District Attorney General Glenn Funk has said Delke could have sought cover
and called for help.

A grand jury indicted Delke in January.

Delke's case is slated for another hearing T uesday.

Copyrig ht 2019 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

 
Nashville judge will hear evidence of victim's - Associated Press State
Wire: Tennessee (TN) - December 15, 2018
December 15, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN)

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — A Nashville judge says attorneys for a white police officer charged in the
shooting death of a black man can introduce parts of the man's criminal history at a preliminary
hearing next month.

T he Tennessean reports General Sessions Judge Melissa Blackburn ruled Friday the defense can
bring up previous "aggressive acts" by the 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
against the motion, saying there is no evidence Officer Andrew Delke, also 25, knew about the past
charges.

Daniel H ambrick. Prosecutors argued

Blackburn ruled against allowing Delke to introduce Facebook photos showing Hambrick
"simulating holding a pistol" and evidence that Hambrick used a gun during a target practice.

Delke has been decommissioned while an internal police investigation into the July shooting
remains open.

At the preliminary hearing next month, Blackburn will decide if the case is strong enough to send to
the grand jury.

Delke's legal team is preparing to argue the officer acted in self defense because he saw Hambrick
holding a gun. Prosecutors have not challenged the fact that Hambrick was armed, but they have
rejected a self-defense argument. T hey note in the warrant that Delke stopped chasing Hambrick
before taking aim and opening fire.

Blackburn agreed Friday to let the defense question expert witnesses about police training that
might have guided Delke's actions.

An autopsy showed Hambrick was hit three times, twice in the back and once in the back of the
head.

___

Information from: T he T ennessean, http://www.tennessean.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Union PR push, move to seal documents tangle - Associated Press State
Wire: Tennessee (TN) - February 14, 2019
February 14, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN) | JONATHAN MATTISE Associated Press

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — T he attorney for a white police officer charged with fatally shooting an
armed black man is calling for legal discovery documents to be sealed from the public.

Meanwhile, the Nashville Fraternal Order of Police has been running digital advertising about the
case, prompting Nashville District Attorney General Glenn Funk to raise questions about potential
conflicts of interest. Officer Andrew Delke's attorneys represent that police union as well.

Delke shot 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
first-degree murder.

Daniel Hambrick from behind during a July foot chase. He's charged with

In a court filing, Funk wrote that the campaign's "misinformation, mistruths and untruths" will be
shown by open exchange of discovery materials.

Defense attorney David Raybin wrote separately that the disclosure could spur witnesses to
appear later and "magically 'remember'" things based on what they've seen on television.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
DA, defense clash in push to seal records in - Associated Press State
Wire: Tennessee (TN) - February 19, 2019
February 19, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN) | JONATHAN MATTISE Associated Press

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — A prosecutor said Tuesday that family members of an armed black man
who was fatally shot from behind by a white Nashville police officer want a slew of records made
public in the officer's first-degree murder case.

But the attorney for Nashville Officer Andrew Delke responded in court that prosecutors "need to
be careful what they ask for" because 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
see what the defense has.

Daniel H ambrick's family might not want to

Delke, 25, shot Hambrick from behind as he chased him last July. T he shooting sparked an outcry
from Hambrick's family, the local NAACP and others, leading to a November referendum vote that
has created a citizen oversight board for Nashville's police force.

In the hearing Tuesday on whether the records should be sealed, Delke lawyer David Raybin said
Nashville District Attorney General Glenn Funk's preference of publicly filed pretrial discovery
documents would let the case be tried through news coverage. Raybin said the discovery filing
preference breaks with a state Supreme Court ruling that Funk backed.

Raybin said Davidson County Criminal Court in Nashville has been unique in filing pretrial discovery
"all willy-nilly with the public," a "pernicious" practice he said should end. He said that anyone with a
cellphone and an internet connection could disseminate the state's case to the world.

"You try your case in the newspaper by filing all of this stuff with the clerk. Everybody can see
everything," Raybin said. "And, again, I want to suggest that I don't know what's in their discovery.
It's trial by ambush all over again."

Funk said Nashville does have exceptions when cases involve child victims or rape. T he 2016 case
that Raybin referenced involved evidence in the rape case against four former Vanderbilt University
football players.

Funk contended that Delke's case doesn't warrant the same treatment.

"T here has not been a showing by the defense that there is something about this case or a need
for privacy protections similar to those that were needed in the Vanderbilt rape case or child rape
cases," Funk said.

Raybin contended that the prosecution already complicated jury selection in August when it publicly
released surveillance video of the shooting. He said that if the state's case was made public, it
could take a month to find a jury, adding that he doesn't want to have to go to another county to
find impartial jurors.

T he Nashville Fraternal Order of Police, meanwhile, has sought to influence opinion in Delke's favor
through a public relations campaign on the case, including digital advertising.

Among other messaging, one ad claims to show a loaded gun that was pointed at Delke.
Prosecutors have cast doubt on whether Hambrick pointed the gun at the officer.

Judge Monte Watkins said he will rule on the discovery disclosure by early next week.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
Fatal shooting case against officer heads to grand - Associated Press
State Wire: Tennessee (TN) - January 8, 2019
January 8, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN) | JONATHAN MATTISE Associated Press

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — T he case against a white Nashville police officer in the fatal shooting of
a black man went to a grand jury Monday, a step punctuated by days of heated rhetoric by the
attorneys.

A Nashville judge found probable cause to send officer Andrew Delke's case to the grand jury.
Delke is charged in the July shooting of 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
ran from the officer.

Daniel H ambrick, who had a handgun as he

Capping a tense two-day court hearing Saturday, District Attorney General Glenn Funk said Delke's
defense argued that Delke was relying on his training. During the hearing, defense attorneys had
said Delke followed that training and state law when he saw Hambrick had a gun and shot him
from behind during a foot chase.

Funk said that recalled a defense used in Nuremberg. He also said there were options available,
adding Delke could have stopped, sought cover and called for help.

Delke's attorney, David Raybin, swung back Monday, saying Funk "has functionally declared war on
our police because all of our officers are trained in an identical fashion."

"Let me be clear: Nashville police officers are not Nazis," Raybin said.

Funk quickly responded that "nothing could be further than the truth" than Raybin's claims of a war
on police, saying in a statement that his office respects and supports Nashville's police department
and that his Nuremberg reference meant that "individuals are accountable for their actions and
cannot assign blame to their superiors or the department as a whole."

"T his case is about Andrew Delke and his actions," not the police department, Funk said.

T he crossfire came soon after Davidson County General Sessions Judge Melissa Blackburn
advanced the case, concluding that the evidence did not demonstrate Delke's life was in imminent
danger at the time. But the judge also stressed that her job was to determine probable cause, a
lower bar than deciding guilt or innocence.

"T he Court is mindful of the fact that police work is stressful; that officers must make split second
decisions and often act in a heroic manner," the judge wrote. "T his does not justify the pursuit of a
man suspected of no crime following the trailing of a car not apparently involved in any criminal
activity. T he decision to pursue Mr. Hambrick on foot seems ... to have been prompted by mere
assumptions."

Blackburn also deemed it "improbable" that Hambrick turned and pointed his gun at Delke during
the chase, noting that wasn't supported by video evidence and that Hambrick appeared to be
running as fast as he could.

Raybin said there's still much that remains unknown, adding a Tennessee Bureau of Investigation
report on the shooting would be provided later in criminal court. He stressed that every case in
Nashville that resulted in a not guilty jury verdict or exoneration was preceded by the finding of
probable cause.

According to an arrest affidavit issued in September, Delke pulled into an apartment parking lot and
mistook a car for one he had been following while looking for stolen vehicles and known juvenile
offenders. Several people were in the area at the time, including Hambrick, who began to run, the
affidavit says.

T he affidavit says Delke believed Hambrick may have been connected to the car he thought might
be stolen, and he chased him and yelled at him to stop. It says Delke shot Hambrick in the back,
torso and the back of his head. A fourth shot missed him.

Hambrick's death sparked an outcry that led to a November ballot question asking T ennessee
voters to approve the creation of a citizen oversight board for the police force. T he measure
passed by a wide margin.

Dozens of officers backing Delke and family and supporters of Hambrick packed the courtroom
for last week's hearings.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
Officer charged in death: Man definitely intended - Associated Press
State Wire: Tennessee (TN) - January 5, 2019
January 5, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN) | JONATHAN MATTISE Associated Press

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — A white Nashville police officer told investigators that he knew "100
percent" that the black man he's charged with fatally shooting intended to shoot at him and
possibly others.

Prosecutors played the state investigator's interview with Andrew Delke, 25, in a Nashville
courtroom Friday, where dozens of police officers packed in to support Delke. T he officers sat
across from rows of family members and others there to advocate for Daniel H ambrick
year-old who died in the shooting as he ran from Delke and held a pistol.

Daniel H ambrick, the 25-

T he shooting death has reignited questions about policing of Nashville's black community. T he
outcry stirred enough support to place a question on the city's November ballot about creating a
citizen oversight board for the police force, and voters approved the measure widely.

A judge is considering whether there is probable cause to pass the case on to a grand jury, an early
but critical step in the process. Friday's five-hour hearing on the matter will spill over into Saturday
and the judge is expected to make a decision Monday.

In his interview, Delke said he relied on his training when Hambrick didn't heed his instructions to
drop the gun, including warning that Delke would otherwise shoot, and the weapon at some point
faced the officer.

"I said to myself, 'If I don't shoot him right now, I'm gonna die,'" Delke said.

Assistant district attorney Ronald Dowdy focused on the lack of video footage or witness
testimony about Hambrick turning, looking back or aiming his weapon at Delke, as Delke claimed in
his interview.

During testimony, Tennessee Bureau of Investigation special agent Steven Kennard estimated
that Hambrick would have been in a blind spot for about two seconds between cameras that
caught the foot chase. Kennard said it would have been "very difficult" to stop, slow down, spin
around and face Delke, and then be sprinting again in that timeframe.

Questioning by defense attorneys sought to paint scenarios where Hambrick could have had time
or a sightline to look back at Delke during that window. T hey also said that state law allows deadly
force by police when they have probable cause that a suspect poses the threat of serious bodily
injury to the officer or others.

"An officer is not under any obligation to let an armed suspect have the first shot," defense
attorney John Brown said in a line of questioning.

According to the arrest affidavit in September, Delke pulled into an apartment parking lot and
mistook a different car for one he had been following while looking for stolen vehicles and known
juvenile offenders, though he found the car wasn't stolen. Several people were in the area as Delke
stopped nearby, one of them Hambrick, who began to run, the affidavit says.

Delke chased Hambrick and yelled at him to stop, though the officer didn't know the fleeing man's
identity, the affidavit says. Delke believed Hambrick may have been connected to the car Delke
misidentified, but didn't know for sure, the affidavit says.

T he affidavit says Delke shot Hambrick in the back, torso and the back of his head. A fourth shot
missed him.

Hambrick's mother started crying and briefly left the courtroom after prosecutors played
surveillance footage of the shooting.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
PR push for white officer accused of killing armed - Associated Press
State Wire: Tennessee (TN) - February 14, 2019
February 14, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN) | JONATHAN MATTISE Associated Press

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — T he attorney for a white police officer charged with fatally shooting an
armed black man in Tennessee is calling for legal discovery documents to be sealed from
members of the public.

Meanwhile, a police union has launched a digital ad campaign seeking to defend the Nashville
officer, Andrew Delke, and bolster his image in public. T he officer shot 25-year-old Daniel
Daniel
H ambrick from behind during a foot chase last July and is charged with first-degree murder.
H ambrick

T wo attorneys for Delke's defense team also represent the Nashville Fraternal Order of Police
itself — which is running the digital ad campaign — or its individual members. T hat has prompted
Nashville District Attorney General Glenn Funk to question whether there are potential conflicts of
interest in Delke's case.

Defense attorney David Raybin has shrugged off the prosecutor's complaints, saying there is no
impropriety or conflict in representing Delke. Raybin also argued Funk was just trying to get
headlines as he pushes for public disclosure of documents obtained in legal discovery.

While the attorneys go back and forth in court papers, the police union's campaign on public
perception continues to grow.

One ad claims to show a loaded gun that was pointed at Delke. But prosecutors have cast doubt
whether Hambrick pointed the gun at the officer.

T he group then set up a "T ruth about Delke" website, saying the officer is being unjustly
prosecuted for "defending his life and doing his job." It also calls Hambrick a "dangerous convicted
felon," and includes a picture of him holding a gun and money, among other photos.

Delke didn't know who Hambrick was when he chased the fleeing man and shot him three times,
an arrest affidavit states.

David Harris, a University of Pittsburgh law professor who specializes in police behavior, law
enforcement and race, said influencing public opinion is a familiar tactic in these kinds of cases. But
he said the use of digital technology has gone beyond the usual statements to reporters huddled
outside the courthouse.

"T hey're trying to influence public opinion about the case in advance of the trial, with the idea of
influencing a possible jury," he added.

But, Harris said, too much public influence one way or another could lead a judge to institute a gag

order, draw the jury from elsewhere, or both.

Additionally, it's not uncommon for attorneys to represent a police organization and charged
officers, Harris added.

Funk contended that the digital campaign contains "misinformation, mistruths and untruths."

Raybin, meanwhile, reasoned that disclosing sealed state documents "might foster the later
appearance of witnesses who magically 'remember' things based on what they have seen on the
television."

Funk first drew the police union's ire last August when he released surveillance footage of Delke
chasing and firing upon Hambrick before an investigation was complete.

In September, Funk announced charges against Delke. T he rhetoric ramped up at a preliminary
hearing when Funk compared Delke's defense to what was used to defend Nazis in Nuremberg.
Raybin swung back days later, saying Funk "functionally declared war on our police."

Delke's grand jury indictment came down last month.

According to the arrest affidavit, Delke pulled into an apartment parking lot and mistook a car for
one he had been following while looking for stolen vehicles and known juvenile offenders. Several
people were in the area at the time, including Hambrick, who began to run, according to the
affidavit.

T he affidavit says Delke believed Hambrick may have been connected to the car he thought might
be stolen, and he chased him and yelled at him to stop. It says Delke shot Hambrick in the back,
torso and the back of his head. A fourth shot missed him.

T he shooting sparked an outcry from Hambrick's family, the local NAACP and others, leading to a
November referendum vote that has created a citizen oversight board for Nashville's police force.

Delke's case heads back to court for a hearing T uesday.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
Nashville Cop Who Shot Black Man In The Back Is - Michigan Chronicle,
The (Detroit, MI) - September 27, 2018
September 27, 2018 | Michigan Chronicle, The (Detroit, MI) | Nigel Roberts

Prosecutors charged a Nashville cop who was seen in a graphic video gunning down a fleeing Black
man, two months after the fatal shooting.

See Also: Video Shows Cop Gunning Down Fleeing Man, But Police Downplay Possible Murder
Charges

T he district attorney's office filed a criminal homicide charge against Officer Andrew Delke on
T hursday for killing 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
back of the head, the Tennessean reported.

Daniel H ambrick—hitting him twice in the back and once in the

Delke surrendered to authorities but was released shortly on $25,000 bond. Meanwhile, the local
police union has vowed to fight to the end in the officer's defense.

On July 26, Delke approached the vehicle Hambrick was in, saying he believed it was the same car
he said he saw earlier that day driving erratically, according to police investigators. Hambrick and
two others fled from the officer.

Surveillance video, released by the prosecutor, showed 25-year-old Delke chasing Hambrick. T he
officer opens fire on Hambrick, who did not appear to turn toward Delke. After firing multiple
times, the officer circled the dying man while continuing to point his weapon at him.

T he Nashville Fraternal Order of Police argued that Delke was defending himself because he saw
Hambrick holding a handgun during the chase. However, the video did not appear to show
Hambrick carrying a weapon.

It's rare for a Nashville police officer to face homicide charges in the line of duty. T hat hasn't
happened for decades, according to the newspaper.

In fact, Delke almost avoided the homicide charge when a magistrate judge told the district
attorney earlier on Thursday that he presented insufficient evidence. But a general session judge
reversed that ruling.

SEE ALSO:

It's A Different World: Bill Cosby Reportedly 'Under Siege' In Prison

Activists Will Keep Botham Jean's Name Alive On His Birthday

[ione_media_gallery src="https://newsone.com" id="3828464" overlay="true"]

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Michig an Chronicle

 
Republican state legislators file bill to limit - Knoxville Enlightener
(TN) - February 13, 2019 - page 1
February 13, 2019 | Knoxville Enlightener (TN) | Page 1

.On Monday, at the start of Black History month, Tennessee republicans filed a bill that will limit the
powers of the state’s Community Oversight Boards (COB).

All eyes in the state are focused on the legislature because three cities; Knoxville, Murfreesboro,
and Chattanooga are looking to start their own versions of the board, and Memphis already has
one.

T he bill, HB0658, sponsored by Representative Michael Curcio and supported by Majority Leader
William Lamberth, would remove subpoena powers from the board, reducing the ability of the
board’s investigative role.

Nashville citizens supported the creation of the board, voting for it overwhelmingly in the August 6
election. T he establishment of a Community Oversight Board had been pursued for years but
received recent traction from the recent killings of unarmed Black men, Jocques Clemmons and
Daniel H ambrick, by Nashville police.
Daniel H ambrick

Opponents of the bill say it unfairly discriminates against African Americans, other racial minorities,
and low-income rural communities that envision healthy police-community relations as a public
safety issue and that it “negates popular control and is averse to small government.”

"T he bill filed by GOP legislators regarding our Community Oversight Board is state government
overreach, plain and simple,” said state Rep. John Ray Clemmons (D-Nashville). “T he residents of
Nashville spoke loudly and clearly last November — we want transparency and accountability from
our police department. Out-of-county lawmakers seem to have no interest in respecting the will of
the voters. T his new bill is a direct assault on the expressed wishes of Nashville to ensure
transparency and accountability for all of our families, and I’ll work to ensure that the Community
Oversight Board is protected."

Nashville Mayor Briley responded to the state legislature, by issuing the following statement: “T he
members of the COB represent the diversity of our city, from three highly respected former law
enforcement officers and a former state Attorney General to community activists and
neighborhood advocates. Better yet, this body was approved by the Metro Council after a very
competitive process. Each member of the 11-member COB has stepped forward to serve
Nashville and help create a safer and more equitable criminal justice system.

“On Feb. 12, I will convene the first meeting of Nashville’s COB. I will continue to support the
process as we move forward together, as a body and a city, to begin this important work.”

On T uesday, the group Community Oversight Now held a press conference announcing a new

campaign in response to the legislative preemption.

T he group’s “Don’t Play Where You’re Not Welcome” campaign will target the top-ranked football
and basketball high school athletes (classes of 2020 and 2021) encouraging them to withdraw
their support from T enn-essee’s colleges and universities.

“T his includes the top 300 football players and top 100 basketball players in the country as
designated by recruitment sites such as ESPN 300 and Rivals.com, as well as the first and second
team all-state athletes in Tennessee and other Mid-South states. T he withdrawal of support
means we are making a vigorous effort to steer these athletes away from Tennessee institutions
and to accept athletic scholarships elsewhere,” said group representatives.

“T he recruitment of top-ranked athletes is the bread and butter of Tennessee’s sports economy.

For example, the University of Tennessee football team brought in more money ($106 million) than
the University of Alabama football program in 2017 and its basketball program is ranked # 1 in the
nation. Successful athletic programs and the revenue they generate spill over into local economies
and impact small businesses. T he loss of 2 or 3 football players (out of a 25-member recruitment
class) can adversely impact a program for years.”

Community Oversight Now plans to nationalize the plan to

inform out-of-state

recruits “about

Representatives Curcio and Lamberth’s efforts to make Tennessee an unsafe environment.”

Educational institutions that have supported police accountability measures and 14th amendment
equal protection claims, such as community colleges and historically black colleges and universities,
will be exempted from the campaign.

“We are calling on Tennessee lawmakers to vote NO on HB 658,” said Community Oversight Now
officials. “We are calling on the Governor, Lt. Governor, Senator Leadership, and people of good will
to reject this discriminatory legislation. Additionally, we are exploring all legal options to prevent
state preemption.”

Copyrig ht (c) 2019, Pride Publishing  Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

 
Police union plans campaign to support accused - Associated Press
State Wire: Tennessee (TN) - January 29, 2019
January 29, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN)

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — A Tennessee chapter of the Fraternal Order of Police plans to spend
thousands of dollars to boost public support for a white police officer charged with first degree
murder in the death of an armed black man.

Nashville Officer Andrew Delke shot 25-year-old Daniel H ambrick
chase in July.

Daniel Hambrick from behind during a foot

T he first ad of the campaign features a photo of a semiautomatic pistol and the words, "T his is
the same loaded gun that was pointed at Officer Delke."

Prosecutors say Hambrick didn't point his gun at the 25-year-old officer, but Delke's defense
attorneys say he did.

A news release about the ad calls the district attorney's decision pursue a murder charge "politically
motivated."

A spokesman for the prosecutor says they don't comment on pending criminal cases.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
DA: 2 weeks to a month more to mull police - Associated Press State
Wire: Tennessee (TN) - September 13, 2018
September 13, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Tennessee (TN)

NASHVILLE, T enn. (AP) — A Tennessee prosecutor says it could take about two weeks to a month
more to decide whether to charge a white officer who fatally shot a 25-year-old black man in July.

Nashville District Attorney Glenn Funk tells T he Tennessean his office is reviewing the investigative
file and "double checking to make sure that we've got all the relevant facts" in the deadly shooting
Daniel H ambrick.
of Daniel H ambrick

Funk says a decision will be made in the case between Sept. 24 and Oct. 15.

Surveillance video shows 25-year-old Nashville officer Andrew Delke chased and shot Hambrick as
he ran away on a sidewalk beside an apartment complex. Authorities say Hambrick had a gun.

T he shooting has drawn community outcry and protests calling for Delke to be fired and charged
with murder.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Police officer: ‘had no choice’ but to shoot, - Chattanooga Times Free
Press (TN) - January 5, 2019 - page B4
January 5, 2019 | Chattanooga Times Free Press (TN) | ADAM TAMBURIN USA TODAY NETWORK-TENNESSEE |
Page B4

Nashville police officer Andrew Delke told investigators he felt like he “had absolutely no choice”
when he shot and killed Daniel H ambrick
chase.

Daniel H ambrick, a man who was running away from him during a foot

Excerpts of Delke’s lengthy interview with Tennessee Bureau of Investigation agents days after
the shooting were played and read in court Friday during a preliminary hearing in a criminal case
against the officer. T he hearing, a routine part of the criminal process, stretched on for five hours
Friday, with lawyers set to continue their arguments at 9 a.m. Saturday.

Delke, 25, is the first Nashville officer to be charged with criminal homicide for an on-duty
shooting. T he high-profile case got significantly more scrutiny than other cases typically do at this
phase.

T he outcome of the preliminary hearing could determine if the case against Delke moves forward.
General Sessions Judge Melissa Blackburn will use the evidence discussed in the hearing to decide if
the case is strong enough to go to the grand jury for another round of review.

Blackburn is expected to announce her decision Monday.

T hroughout Friday’s interview, Delke said he made the split-second decision to open fire on
Hambrick, 25, based on his police training.

Delke said that, at one point during the July 26 foot chase, he saw Hambrick turn to look at him and
point a gun in his direction. Delke said he told Hambrick to drop the gun or he would shoot.

“He’s refusing multiple commands to drop the gun,” Delke said in the interview. “In my mind at that
moment I knew 100 percent his intent was to use that gun against me and maybe possibly
somebody else.”

Prosecutors do not challenge that Hambrick was armed, but assistant district attorney Ronald
Dowdy said portions of Delke’s account were “not consistent with the evidence.”

On Friday, Dowdy drew attention to the fact that surveillance footage of the chase, drawn from
several cameras in the area, showed no evidence that Hambrick looked at Delke or took aim.

Prosecutors and defense attorneys sparred over whether Hambrick could have turned and aimed
during a 36-foot “void” in the midst of the chase that was not captured on video.

Dozens of off-duty police officers crowded the courtroom for the hearing. Hambrick’s family
packed into the front rows of the gallery, sometimes crying softly as details of his death were
discussed.

Delke, who is white, is charged with killing Hambrick, who is black.

Delke encountered Hambrick in a North Nashville parking lot after an attempted traffic stop
nearby. After Hambrick saw Delke, he ran and the officer followed behind.

Surveillance video of the seconds before the shooting shows Hambrick facing forward and running
away as Delke stops, aims and shoots. Hambrick was hit three times from behind.

Copyrig ht 2019, Chattanoog a Times Free Press.

 

Victims, attacker in stabbings identified - Columbus Dispatch, The (OH)
- May 3, 2018 - page 5B
May 3, 2018 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Patrick Cooley | Page 5B

Columbus police on Wednesday identified the four victims of Monday's apparent domestic-
violence stabbing attack on the Northeast Side and the suspect, who was fatally shot by a police
officer.

Abadi Gebreg ziber
Abadi Gebreg ziber, 64, stabbed three women in a Northeast Side apartment before a police
sergeant shot him in a confrontation in a parking lot outside the apartment on the 4400 block of
Walford Street, police said. Gebregziber was holding a butcher knife when he was shot just after
another officer had fired a stun gun at him, said Sgt. Dean Worthington, police division spokesman.

Gebregziber and two of the stabbing victims -- his estranged wife, 33-year-old Azeb Demewez, and
Russom Habte, 19 -- were taken to OhioHealth Riverside Hospital, where they died Monday.

T he third victim stabbed in the apartment, Alganesh Gebrezgabiher, 51, remains in Riverside in
stable condition.

Angie Plummer, the executive director of Community Refugee & Immigration Services in
Columbus, provided the relationships of the victims and their attacker. She said Gebrezgabiher is
the mother of Russom Habte and 18-year-old Selam Habte.

Investigators discovered Selam Habte dead from stab wounds when they went to Gebregziber's
townhouse address in the 2100 block of Fitzroy Drive in the same complex. Although Selam Habte
was the fourth victim found, police believe that Gebregziber attacked him first on Monday, then
went to the Walford Street apartment and stabbed the three women, Worthington said.

Police were called to the Walford Street apartment at 9:11 a.m. Monday and confronted
Gebregziber. Sgt. Gregg Seevers, a 21-year veteran of the force, shot him.

T he motive behind the stabbings remains unclear, police said, although it is believed to be
domestic-related.

CRIS and Ethiopian T ewahedo Social Services are raising money for a victims-of-crime
compensation fund to aid the families, including the three young children of Demewez and
Gebregzber who lived in the first-floor apartment on Walford Street and are now orphans. T he
oldest is a 7-year-old daughter who was at school at the time of the stabbings. T he estranged
couple also had twins; their ages and genders were still unavailable Wednesday.

CRIS had resettled the victims in the United States, helping them adjust to their new surroundings
through job-placement and mentoring programs, Plummer said. T hey fled persecution in their
home country of Eritrea in eastern Africa and lived for several years in a refugee camp in Ethiopia

before they came to the United States in June, she said.

"It is devastating to know that they fled Eritrea," only to become victims of domestic violence in the
United States, Plummer said. "T hey came here in the hope of starting a new life."

Plummer said she hopes that people don't assume from this incident that refugees are prone to
violence. "Domestic violence is a scourge" that affects people of all cultures and nationalities, she
said.

Seevers is on a three-day administrative leave per department policy covering officer-involved
shootings. An internal police firearms review board and a Franklin County grand jury also will review
the shooting.

pcooley@dispatch.com

@PatrickACooley

Copyrig ht 2018 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 

Police rule officer-involved shooting justified - Columbus Dispatch, The
(OH) - April 13, 2019 - page 2B
April 13, 2019 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Bethany Bruner | Page 2B

Columbus police have determined that an officer-involved shooting in April 2018 was justified, the
division said Friday.

Abadi
Officer Gregg Seevers, a 22-year veteran of the division, fatally shot 64-year-old Abadi
Gebreg ziber
Gebreg ziber on April 30, 2018, in a confrontation outside an apartment on the 4400 block of
Walford Street on the Northeast Side.

Gebregziber was holding a butcher knife at the time he was shot. Another officer had fired a stun
gun at him, police said at the time.

Gebregziber had fatally stabbed his estranged wife, 33-year-old Azeb Demewez, 18-year-old Selam
Habte and 19-year-old Russom Habte. A fourth stabbing victim, 51-year-old Alganesh
Gebrezgabiher, was hospitalized as a result of the attack at the apartment. Gebrezgabiher is the
mother of the Habtes.

Russom Habte was found at Gebregziber's townhouse on the 2100 block of Fitzroy Drive in the
same Northeast Side apartment complex. It was believed that Russom Habte was stabbed first
and then Gebregziber went to the Walford Street address and stabbed the three women.

T he shooting was reviewed by the Columbus police Firearms/Police-Involved Death Review Board,
and Seevers' actions were determined to be within division policy.

bbruner@dispatch.com

@bethany_bruner

Copyrig ht 2019 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 
Officer not indicted in fatal shooting - Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) -
January 19, 2019 - page 5B
January 19, 2019 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Edward Sutelan | Page 5B

A Franklin County grand jury decided not to indict a Columbus police officer who killed a man
suspected of slaying three people in April, according to a press release from county Prosecutor
Ron O'Brien.

Abadi Gebregziber on April 30 after the man attempted to flee the

Sgt. Gregg Seevers shot Abadi Gebreg ziber
scene, a townhouse in the 4400 block of Walford Street, where three women had been stabbed.
T wo of those women -- Gebregziber's estranged wife, 33-year-old Azeb Demewez, and Russom
Habte, 19 -- died. Another man, Selam Habte, was found dead in an apartment on the 2100 block
of Fitzroy Drive.

Police ordered Gebregziber to drop his knife outside the apartment on Walford Street where
officers had been dispatched to, but he ran off with the knife and was shot once by Seevers.
Gebregziber fell but attempted to throw his knife at an officer before a stun gun was used on him.
T he release said the shooting was captured on an officer's body camera.

O'Brien's office presented the case to the grand jury, as is routine for officer-involved shootings.

esutelan@dispatch.com

@EdwardSutelan

Copyrig ht 2019 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 
Police identify shooter, victims in Ohio fatal - Associated Press State
Wire: Ohio (OH) - May 2, 2018
May 2, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Ohio (OH)

COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Columbus police have identified the man who stabbed two women and a
man to death and critically injured a woman before he was fatally shot by an officer while holding a
butcher knife.

Police on Wednesday identified the man killed by police Monday morning outside a Columbus
Abadi Gebreg ziber.
apartment complex as 64-year-old Abadi Gebreg ziber

Police say the women are 33-year-old Azeb Demewez and 18-year-old Selam Habte, and the man
is 19-year-old Russom Habte.

Police say 51-year-old Alganesh Gebrezgabiher remains hospitalized in critical condition.

WBNS-T V reports Selam and Russom Habte were sister and brother and Alganesh Gebrezgabiher
is their mother.

Police haven't said what prompted the attack.

Police say an officer shocked Abadi Gebreg ziber
fire and killed him.

Abadi Gebregziber with a stun gun before another officer opened

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

Deputy U.S. marshal shot to death - Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA) -
January 19, 2018 - page 7
January 19, 2018 | Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA) | MARK SCOLFORO The Associated Press | Page 7

HARRISBURG, Pa. - A gunman opened fire on law enforcement officers serving an arrest warrant
inside a home before dawn T hursday, killing a deputy U.S. marshal before he was shot to death by
police as he fled outside, authorities said.

Police were on the first floor handcuffing the woman they were seeking to arrest when 31-year-old
Kevin Sturg is
Kevin Sturg is , of Philadelphia, began firing from the second floor, said U.S. Attorney Dave Freed.
Sturgis was fatally shot as he later ran out the front door, again shooting at police, Freed said.

Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher David Hill, 45, an Army veteran who has been with the service
more than a decade, died from his injuries. Another member of the fugitive task force, York City
Police Officer Kyle Pitts, also was hit by gunfire, but his injuries were not considered life-
threatening.

"None of us has sufficient words to express our grief and sorrow," Freed said.

Officials said a team of about seven showed up at the home of Shayla Lynette T owles Pierce, 30,
around 6 a.m. to arrest her on a charge of making a terroristic threat with a weapon. T hey did not
say what the relationship was between her and Sturgis.

Children also were at home at the time, Freed said. Pierce was jailed on $200,000 bail, and a public
defender who had recently represented her in a separate case declined to comment.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

 
Neighbors resilient in face of second police - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - January 21, 2018 - page A1
January 21, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Charles Thompson | Page A1

It was not lost on anyone at the scene of Thursday morning’s tragedy in Harrisburg that the yellow
police tape was up at almost precisely the same spots as during another deadly, police-involved
shooting the week before Christmas.

T hat kind of repeated off-the-charts violence has left residents of this section of Allison Hill
unnerved, to be sure.

“Cop got shot. Cop dead,” said a worker at the nearby Hilltop Restaurant on 17th Street who only
gave his first name, John, to a reporter. He slowly shook his head at the awful thought of it all.

“T hey protect you. And they dyin’ now? Lord help us. Please.”

His thoughts summed up the stunned sadness that hung over the neighborhood T hursday
morning, as residents found themselves trapped once again in an all-hands-on-deck crime scene.

But there’s one other thing you should know about these Harrisburgers, who hold jobs, shovel
snow, make car payments and send the kids to school like everyone else.

T hese back-to-back incidents, to them, speak to a city-wide crime problem, a too-many-guns-out-
there problem, and maybe even mental health or domestic violence problems.

But it’s not a Mulberry Street problem.

T he fact that Ahmed El-Mofty’s city-wide rampage ended on these same blocks was really nothing
more than coincidence.

Investigators’ preliminary finding in that case suggested that El-Mofty might have simply reached
the breaking point after a series of disappointments in his life.

And the Thursday morning shooting that felled multiple law enforcement officers, killing Deputy
U.S. Marshal Christopher Hill, seems to have resulted from one man’s bad reaction to an arrest
warrant service.

T hat man has been identified as Kevin Sturg is

Kevin Sturg is , 31, of Philadelphia.

Killed by officers returning his fire, Sturgis also had active warrants from the court system in
Philadelphia on unlawful gun possession and other charges.

T he reality is these violent eruptions can, and do, happen all over Pennsylvania, and all over the

United States every day.

So while the residents and workers in Allison Hill do appreciate your support and prayers, they
would ask, please hold off on your judgment.

“I don’t think this street is a bad street,” said Chris Morris, a 29-year-old clerk at Piccolo’s Cafe at
17th and Mulberry streets.

“You just had two people make not-good decisions, you know?”

T hat is not to say that people weren’t rattled by the mayhem.

Eric Anderson, a 19-year-old Harrisburg High School student who was staying with his
grandmother on South 18th Street, said they were awakened Thursday morning by the sustained
gunfight around the corner.

Anderson, like several reached Thursday on the outskirts of the evidence collection zone, noted he
is no stranger to the sound of gunplay on city streets.

But this, he allowed, was different.

“What we’re used to, it’s not OK. But it’s like, if you grew up in an urban area, you do get used to it
(gunshots). But this was like, 10, 12, kept going and kept going ... It kind of was scary.”

One woman, who refused to give her name as she walked near T he Corner Store at 19th and
Bellevue streets, had noticed the helicopter buzzing overhead, but only learned of the shooting
from a reporter.

“I am concerned. I have children, but even if i didn’t, this is not a way of life,” she said.

“It seems like every other day I hear gunfire in the street. ... I don’t think that human beings were
meant to live this way.”

But the bigger theme was, in a word, resilience.

Macy Owens, an 18-year-old recent high school graduate and Kensington Street resident was
walking through the neighborhood on her way to Harrisburg Area Community College’s Midtown
Campus.

“People are just crazy,” she said, when asked about the shooting.

And, like Anderson, she conceded that she’s grown up with gunshots almost as part of the
background noise of the city.

But Owens wanted to warn against anyone watching or reading the news from making any snap
judgments about her neighborhood or the people who live here.

“Where you live doesn’t determine who you are,” the teen noted. “Just because you live in the
’hood, doesn’t make you ghetto.”

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
Year after fatal raid, woman goes free Marshal - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - January 20, 2019 - page 003
January 20, 2019 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Christine Vendel cvendel@pennlive.com | Page 003

One year after a deadly police raid in Harrisburg, the woman at the center of the investigation has
been paroled from prison and charged with eight new drug crimes.

But Shayla L. T owles Pierce, 31, likely will not face any charges related to the death of deputy U.S.
Marshal Christopher Hill at her home on Jan. 18, 2018.

Hill was struck by friendly fire after Pierce’s boyfriend, Kevin Sturg is
task force by firing at members from the second floor of the home. Members of the task force
returned fire, and bullets penetrated the wall, striking Hill, who was clearing a backroom.

Kevin Sturg is , surprised the U.S. marshals

Sturgis later died in a gunbattle in the street in front of the home.

Federal officials filed a detainer against Pierce shortly after the raid in the 1800 block of Mulberry
Street, indicating their interest in looking at her for possible additional charges. T he detainer was
intended to keep her behind bars in case she was able to post bail on two misdemeanors and an
illegal gun possession charge, which ostensibly were the charges behind the raid by the U.S.
marshal’s task force.

Her attorney at the time said he was concerned she could get indicted over her connection to the
raid.

As it turned out, seven months after the raid, the federal detainer was lifted without any public
notice.

Pierce pleaded guilty to misdemeanor

charges of terroristic threats and simple assault and a third-degree felony gun charge Aug. 27 and
was released on “immediate parole” for time served. She had been in jail since the day of the raid
for allegedly pointing a gun at a motorist who had asked Pierce to move her car, which was
blocking the street. Pierce also was placed on five years of probation and assigned $3,740 in court
costs plus $1,250 in fines.

As part of her sentence, she is forbidden from visiting her old neighborhood, where the victim of
the assault lived.

But before Pierce could get out of prison, Dauphin County prosecutors immediately filed six
felonies and two misdemeanors against her for illegal drugs that allegedly were found inside the
home during the raid.

Police had not previously mentioned that they had found drugs inside the home.

T he new charges kept her behind bars for about 10 more days until she posted $30,000 monetary
bail on Sept. 10. She has been free ever since. She appeared for arraignment Dec. 7. Her next
court date is set for March 18.

Court records to support the drug charges against Pierce said officers found in her home: more
than 1.5 pounds of marijuana, 2 ounces of liquid PCP, two electronic scales and a “narcotics ledger”
written on Pierce’s bedroom mirror.

T he amount of marijuana is beyond what someone would maintain for personal use, police said.
T he drug is often sold in one-eighth-ounce bags, so the amount confiscated could equate to 192
individual sales and net a dealer between nearly $5,000 and $10,000, depending on the quality.

Police also found $7,000 in cash hidden in four bundles throughout Pierce’s home. One bundle was
wrapped in tinfoil and tucked into the freezer. Three other bundles were hidden behind a painting
hanging on the wall, according to court records.

Police also reported finding a box of .45-caliber ammunition in Pierce’s underwear drawer. T he gun
Sturgis used to shoot at the deputy marshals was a .45-caliber gun, according to investigators.

T he new charges against Pierce are two felony counts of drug distribution, four felony counts of
conspiracy and two misdemeanor counts of child endangerment for “allowing the operation of an
illegal drug distribution in the home,” according to court records.

Pierce, Sturgis and two children were the only ones inside the home when the U.S. marshals task
force knocked on the door in the early hours of Jan. 18, 2018, with an arrest warrant in hand.

Prosecutors last year gave this account of the shooting:

Pierce and the children came downstairs to meet police, and officers had started to handcuff
Pierce when Sturgis yelled “Are you looking for me?” from the top of the staircase.

He then fired a single round at officers, hitting a York officer in the arm.

T ask force members fired back, and retreated through the dining room and rear door with the
mortally wounded Hill.

Sturgis then ran out the front door of the house, and continued to fire on officers, striking a
Harrisburg officer in the chest. A bullet resistant vest saved his life. He later retired from the
department.

T he York officer shot in the right arm has since returned to patrol duty, according to the York Daily
Record.

Officer Kyle Pitts learned how to shoot with his left arm to return to duty, according to the YDR
report.

Copyrig ht, 2019, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
Gunman still gets blame for death, police say - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - March 4, 2018 - page A22
March 4, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Charles Thompson | Page A22

T ragedy upon tragedy.

T hat summed up the immediate reaction to the news Thursday that the Jan. 18 shooting death of
Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher Hill in Harrisburg was caused by friendly fire from other police on
the scene.

But there was another train of thought, too, at least in law enforcement circles.

And that was, that, even though ballistics tests now show Kevin Sturg is
fugitive who police say opened fire on them during an early morning warrant service — didn’t fire
the shot that killed Hill, those results in no way exonerate Sturgis, or change the grand arc of the
story.

Kevin Sturg is  — the Philadelphia

“It’s a tragedy the way it happened, but Mr. Sturgis started shooting first,” said Harrisburg Police
Chief Thomas Carter. “Due to the fact he instigated the incident, it doesn’t change anything.

“My heart goes out to the Hill family.”

T he point was hammered home in this statement released Thursday by the U.S. Marshals Service:

“On January 18, Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher Hill died in the line of duty in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, while executing an arrest warrant on a female defendant who was wanted by the
Harrisburg Bureau of Police for terroristic threat offenses.

“While executing the warrant, Deputy Hill and his arrest team were fired upon by another subject in
the house — a male, convicted felon who was wanted for attempted murder of his pregnant
girlfriend. During this tragic incident, Deputy Hill was struck by a round that passed through a wall in
the residence.

“Initial indications suggested that one of the shots fired by the assailant had struck and killed
Deputy Hill. T oday, the preliminary FBI forensics and ballistics review indicates that the round which
struck Deputy Hill was fired by a fellow law enforcement officer who was engaged in a gun battle
with the assailant.

“Deputy Hill made the ultimate sacrifice while executing a lawful arrest warrant on a female
suspect wanted for terroristic threats. T hat fact remains,” the statement continues.

“He died a hero while protecting his community from dangerous criminals like the female
defendant and the male assailant who opened fire on his team. T hose facts remain unchanged

too.

“T he results of the FBI’s review do not diminish the heroic acts of Deputy Hill or his team. A
convicted felon opened fire on law enforcement officers and ultimately led to Deputy Hill’s
unfortunate and untimely death. T hose are the facts.

“USMS intends to conduct a thorough review of the official FBI report when it’s received and
determine whether there are any lessons to be learned which may be appropriate to re-emphasize
in training.”

Reached by telephone as the statement was coming out, Hill’s former boss Martin Payne, who
leads the service’s office for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, doubled down on Sturgis.

“T he catalyst which led us here is a career convicted felon wanted on multiple warrants — the
most serious of which was for firing six rounds at his pregnant girlfriend, and striking her with three
— who opened fire on law enforcement officers, striking two of them,” Payne said.

Payne’s reference appeared to be to a separate case out of Philadelphia that Sturgis was
apparently a suspect in.

T hat could answer the question about why an elite task force was sent to arrest a woman for a
gun charge and two misdemeanors, especially when she had just appeared in court two weeks
prior to the arrest warrant.

Some of Sturgis’s survivors had a different take.

While also expressing regret over Hill’s death, they said the new findings will be just as important to
Sturgis’s friends and family going forward.

“I’m upset about it,” Jenea Sturgis, Kevin’s widow, told PennLive. “T he whole world thinks he’s a
murderer and he’s the one that killed that officer. Our kids have to see that” the facts show that he
did not kill Hill.

As to the new layer of tragedy?

Payne covered that too T hursday, saying he and his colleagues wanted to thank “the people of the
greater Harrisburg and York communities for their outpouring of support for the Hill family.

“We continue to ask that you keep them in your thoughts and prayers.”

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo said the task force members performed “very well
under extremely stressful circumstances. Deputy Marshal Hill died a hero.

Staff writer Christine Vendel contributed to this report.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
Officer describes being shot in chest during raid - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - June 21, 2018 - page 003
June 21, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Christine Vendel cvendel@pennlive.com | Page 003

Shortly after members of a U.S. marshals task force entered a Harrisburg house to serve a
warrant in January, Officer Jeff Cook, who was stationed outside, heard gunfire erupt.

Kevin Sturg is
He took a step closer to the front door, not knowing what to expect. T hat’s when Kevin Sturg is
barged through the doorway with a gun in his hand about 10 feet away from him.

“He looks at me. I look at him,” Cook said. “I start moving back. He pulls the trigger. I feel
something hit me (in the chest). But I don’t know, like, I didn’t feel ... I didn’t feel any liquid or
warmth, so I just continued.”

Cook spoke publicly about the deadly raid for the first time Wednesday during an award ceremony
where he was inducted into a national club of officers saved by their bullet-resistant vests.

Cook’s “save” represented the 2,006th by a Safariland vest, according to company officials who
presented Cook with a plaque at police headquarters.

After Cook was shot in the chest, he was able to continue to engage the fleeing gunman, which
likely wouldn’t have been possible without his vest, which was reinforced with extra steel plates. If
Cook had been wearing simply a “soft” bullet-resistant vest without the steel plates, the bullet could
have knocked him down, slammed the wind out of him or broken bones.

Instead, Cook followed Sturgis down the street as Sturgis and officers exchanged gunfire. An
officer found Sturgis hiding between two parked cars and Sturgis pointed a

pistol at the officer, prosecutors said, prompting the officer to fatally shoot him.

Cook wasn’t entirely sure what had happened to him until he returned to police headquarters later
that night, removed his vest and saw the bullet hole in his vest.

T he steel plates that he tucked into his vest came from a retired trooper who gave him his old
plates two years earlier.

“I’m just glad to be here. Glad to be alive,” Cook said. “T hankfully, because of their product, I’m here
today.”

In the wake of the shooting, department officials said they wanted to buy steel plates to reinforce
the vests of all officers.

T he department won a $145,000 county gaming grant to purchase a number of the vests, which

would be donned for high-risk assignments.

A group of Emergency Department nurses at UPMC Pinnacle Harrisburg also staged a 5K run last
week that raised $20,000 to help the department buy even more protective vests.

Cook retired from the police department this month after a 27-year career.

He had originally planned to retire in December but stayed on longer because there weren’t
enough officers on the force to be able to fill his position on the task force. Cook said he agreed to
stay on until the end of January.

T hen the shooting that could have ended his life happened that month.

Cook didn’t want to retire immediately after the shooting, as if the shooting had ended his career.
Instead, he wanted to see if he could still perform the job, even after the traumatic event where his
friend and teammate, Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher Hill was killed inside the home during the
raid in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street.

Cook was cleared for duty two months later, and he returned to the marshals’ task force. He
helped with their assignments until June 1 and “served admirably,” police Capt. Gabriel Olivera said.

T he shooting in January was the third time Cook had been shot at as a police officer, but the first
time he was struck.

Earlier in his career, he said someone opened fire on him and other officers as they were cracking
down on drug-dealing in the 1900 block of Brown Street in Allison Hill.

In 1997, someone popped out of a dark alley and fired at a car he was in, Cook said.

In his retirement, Cook said he’s looking to stay in the area with his wife and pick up a low-key part-
time job to keep busy.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
Gunman was facing years in state prison - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - January 21, 2018 - page A10
January 21, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Charles Thompson | Page A10

Court records suggest one possible explanation for why Kevin Sturg is
T hursday in a gun battle with police, acted so rashly.

Kevin Sturg is , who was shot and killed

After a lifetime of relatively short stints in jail, the 31-year-old charged with killing Deputy U.S.
Marshal Christopher Hill, might have known he was facing significantly harder prison time than he’d
ever served before if captured.

T he document, by itself, can’t be conclusive. Attempts to reach Sturgis’s family were not
successful, and investigators have thus far not released their own conclusions about a motive.

Several neighbors have said that, in their sidewalk encounters with Sturgis, he was very polite and
friendly during the brief time he lived in the neighborhood.

He drove a car and otherwise did not act like a man on the run.

But a sentencing memorandum filed by Philadelphia assistant district attorney Robert Wainwright
the day before Sturgis was to be sentenced in January 2017 for illegal possession of a handgun
might be instructive.

T he gun case, which dates to April 8, 2014, city police officers stopped a car for a stop sign
violation. Officers said they saw the driver, later identified as Sturgis, move something.

T hey recovered a .40-caliber semi-automatic handgun from the car’s center console.

Philly prosecutors wanted Common Pleas Judge Giovanni Campbell to sentence Sturgis to five to
10 years in state prison.

It was time, the prosecutor suggested, to hew to state sentencing guidelines and teach a man
who regularly faced criminal charges a lesson.

His argument was based on a record that showed 11 arrests and six convictions for Sturgis as an
adult, plus an attempted rape case that Sturgis was found delinquent on — tantamount to a
conviction in adult court — as a juvenile in 2004, when he was 17.

It was not immediately clear what kind of sentence Sturgis received as a juvenile.

T he adult convictions included a theft by receiving stolen property case in which Sturgis was found
at the wheel of a stolen car; a drug dealing charge in 2008; and the gun charges in 2014.

T hose were all Philadelphia cases.

T here was also an incident in Myrtle Beach, S.C., during which Sturgis was found guilty of a
December 2008 theft charge and sentenced to a 30-day maximum prison term.

And a variety of probation violations or missed court appearances that landed Sturgis behind bars
for several weeks at a time.

Sturgis also was arrested on drug charges in Harrisburg in 2013, though most of those counts
were dismissed at the district justice level, and a remaining conspiracy charge, records show, was
dropped.

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo said in that case, after a co-defendant took full
responsibility for the drugs and pleaded guilty, prosecutors eventually recognized they had no case
left against Sturgis.

According to Philadelphia’s prison records, Sturgis had been in and out of city jails on nine separate
occasions between January 2007 and October 2015.

T he longest stint was from July 14, 2011 to May 17, 2012, after his arrest for an earlier set of gun
charges that were ultimately dropped.

Sturgis also served more than seven months after his 2014 arrest, which resulted in his conviction
at trial for unlawful possession of a firearm in 2016.

It was sentencing for that case that generated Wainright’s memo, in which the prosecutor argued
Sturgis’s “lengthy criminal history in multiple states” and his prior probation violations warranted
five to 10 years behind bars.

Campbell, the sentencing judge, never got to make that call.

At the time of Sturgis’s sentencing on Jan. 5, 2017 the defendant, who had been on house arrest,
was a no-show. “He didn’t show up for sentencing, and I hadn’t heard from him since,” Sturgis’s
attorney, Gerald Stein, said Friday.

Sturgis had apparently stayed off police radar ever since, until T hursday.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 

Officer Pitts remains in stable condition - Pitts - York Daily Record (PA) -
January 22, 2018 - page A2
January 22, 2018 | York Daily Record (PA) | Ted Czech | Page A2

York City Police Officer Kyle Pitts remains in stable condition at Penn State Hershey Medical Center,
recovering from injuries after he was shot T hursday, according to a city police news release on
Sunday.

"Along with his injuries, Officer Pitts along with all members of the York City Police Department are
coping with the loss of our friend and brother Deputy Christopher Hill," the news release states.

Pitts, a 10-year-veteran of the department, underwent surgery Thursday after being shot while
helping the U.S. Marshals serve a warrant in Harrisburg.

"He's one of the best officers that we've had here," Chief Troy Bankert said during a news
conference late Thursday afternoon.

Pitts, Hill and a Harrisburg Police officer were serving a warrant on a female fugitive about 6 a.m.
T hursday in Harrisburg.

Using a warrant, the men entered a home to arrest Shayla Lynette T owles Pierce, who was wanted
by the Harrisburg Bureau of Police for terroristic threat offenses.

While arresting Pierce, the officers were fired upon by someone on the second floor of the house,
officials said. Soon after, a man ran out the front of the home, firing at the officers. T he officers
returned fire, killing the man later identified as Kevin Sturg is

Kevin Sturg is , 31, of Philadelphia.

Hill, 45, of Conewago Township 'died a hero' Thursday morning, said US Attorney David Freed.

Pitts was wounded and the Harrisburg police officer was struck in his body armor by a projectile,
and was not seriously wounded, officials said.

Copyrig ht © 2018 The York Daily Record.

 
Gunman in raid was shot 18 times - DA releases - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - March 8, 2018 - page A3
March 8, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Christine Vendel | Page A3

Harrisburg

Kevin Sturg is
Kevin Sturg is  fired the first shot inside a Harrisburg house in January, authorities said, hitting a
U.S. marshals task force member in the elbow.

It was the only shot he fired inside the house in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street, authorities
confirmed this week.

Sturgis fired three more bullets outside of the house, including one that hit a Harrisburg officer in
his bullet-resistant vest, said District Attorney Fran Chardo, who provided more details about the
police-involved shooting to PennLive/T he Patriot-News this week.

Chardo would not say how many rounds of gunfire were fired by members of the task force, but
Sturgis was hit 18 times, including seven graze wounds.

One bullet pierced his aorta, Chardo said, causing him to die in the street almost instantly. He was
pronounced dead and his body was not moved while police collected evidence, Chardo said.

It’s unclear whether Sturgis received some of his injuries as gunfire was exchanged inside the
house or during an ensuing gun battle in the street amid residents’ parked vehicles.

But many of his wounds likely came at the end, when a task force member found Sturgis hiding
between two parked cars. Sturgis pointed a pistol at the officer, Chardo said, and the officer fatally
shot Sturgis.

T he pistol and two shell casings fired from it were found near where Sturgis was fatally shot,
Chardo said. T he district attorney ruled the shooting death justifiable.

T he new information from Chardo came less than a week after authorities disclosed for the first
time that a deputy U.S. marshal killed during the Jan. 18 raid of the home was struck by a bullet fired
by an officer, not Sturgis.

T he fatal bullet that struck Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher Hill in his unprotected armpit area was
one of several bullets that came through a wall behind Sturgis as at least one officer returned fire
in the initial volley of gunfire inside the home.

Sturgis was wanted for skipping bail and failing to appear at his Jan. 5, 2017, sen

ing for a 2014 gun crime, where he was likely facing five to 10 years in prison. A prosecutor was

pushing for serious jail time noting that Sturgis had been arrested 11 times and had six convictions,
not including a rape case as a juvenile.

He had been convicted in October 2016 of illegally carrying a gun in his car.

Less than one month after that conviction, while he was out on $1 bond, Philadelphia police allege
Sturgis nearly killed his pregnant girlfriend in the 800 block of East Price Street.

Police got a call about the sound of gunshots just after midnight, and officers found a 25-year-old
woman with two gunshot wounds to her right arm and one to her chest. She was critically
wounded but survived. Police did not have any information about the status of the baby.

While Sturgis was wanted for serious crimes, the U.S. Marshals Service maintains that the task
force was at Shayla Pierce’s house on Mulberry Street on Jan. 18 to arrest Pierce, not Sturgis, who
was apparently hiding out there.

Authorities had a warrant for the arrest of Pierce for illegal gun possession and two
misdemeanors. It’s unclear why this gun case would draw the attention of a federal task force as
illegal gun cases in the city are common.

A Marshals Service spokeswoman said the Harrisburg police department asked for their assistance
in arresting Pierce, but police Chief Thomas Carter said he could not comment on who asked for
the federal assistance.

Adding to the confusion about the genesis of the raid, a prosecutor had just dropped a child-abuse
case against Pierce two weeks prior, as Pierce stood in Dauphin County Court before a judge.

Now, Pierce could face additional charges from federal authorities, who have filed a detainer on
her to keep her behind bars. She has remained in jail for her gun charge since Jan. 18.

Her attorney Aaron Holt said he is planning a vigorous defense. He said he doesn’t believe Pierce
knew of the extent of Sturgis’ criminal record.

While neighbors referred to Sturgis as Pierce’s boyfriend, Sturgis had a wife and children in
Philadelphia.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
How an arrest turned deadly - Witnesses describe - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - January 21, 2018 - page A1
January 21, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Christine Vendel | Page A1

DEPUT Y U.S. MARSHAL SLAIN

T he sound of gunshots rousted residents out of bed in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street early
T hursday and several of them peered outside to see what was going on.

T hat’s when they witnessed a life-or-death gunbattle playing out in front of them between a
wanted man and several police officers.

T he neighbors didn’t know it at the time, but the wanted man had just shot two officers from a U.S.
Marshals Service fugitive apprehension team inside the home.

One of the officers was hit in the chest through a gap in the side of his bullet-resistant vest,
according to sources, and he later died. T he other officer suffered an injury to his arm.

After hearing about six gunshots from inside the house, several neighbors saw the gunman barge
out the front door while holding a gun. Several officers already were stationed outside. T he
gunman had his gun pointed at an officer in the street in front of him, according to neighbors.

T he gunman dove head-first off the front porch, into the snow and slid behind a parked car. He
then popped up between the cars and fired at offi

cers as officers returned gunfire.

Diane Stinson said she saw an officer shooting over the top of a parked PT  Cruiser toward where
her car was parked.

T he gunman crept around a parked car and then ran down the street, according to Stinson and
other neighbors, as officers fired at him. T he gunman darted back in between two parked cars, and
officers lost sight of him in the darkness.

An officer walked down the sidewalk with a flashlight as a neighbor pointed out where the gunman
was last seen.

T hat’s when the officer spotted the gunman hiding under a vehicle.

“Don’t move!” the officer shouted.

Neighbors then heard the officer fire about 15 gunshots. After that, another officer pointed a rifle
to the gunman’s head and repeated the command, “Don’t move.”

T he officers handcuffed the gunman and moved his body to the middle of the street, where he
died.

Meanwhile, other officers were working furiously to remove the wounded officers from the back
of the house and get them to hospitals.

Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher D. Hill, 45, died at a hospital from his injuries. He was described as
highly trained and the “cream of the crop.” York city Officer Kyle Pitts underwent surgery for a
wound to his arm.

A Harrisburg officer stationed outside the home was struck in the chest by a projectile, but his
bullet-resistant vest bolstered with a steel plate protected him.

A team of seven officers executed the arrest warrant T hursday, according to U.S. Marshal Martin
Pane and all members were wearing body armor.

T he task force comprises federally employed marshals, such as Hill, as well as local officers who
are deputized to serve on the task force.

While all members were protected by bullet-resistant vests, in some situations like T hursday,
gunfire can hit officers in areas not protected by vests.

Law enforcement officials provided a brief description of the shootout at a 2 p.m. news
conference T hursday. But neighbors on Friday provided more details from their vantage points
after officers took down the crime scene tape that had previously locked down the block.

Many of the vehicles parked in the area of the shooting bore visible bullet holes on Friday.

T he property owner where the shooting took place allowed PennLive/T he Patriot-News into the
home, where a repairman was patching up more than a dozen bullet holes. T he house had been
thoroughly searched by investigators and left in disarray with piles of clothing and personal
belongings mixed with framed photos and children’s athletic trophies.

Bullet holes inside the home were concentrated in walls near the stairwell, where officials say the
gunman surprised officers from the second-floor. T he officers had been handcuffing Shayla
T owles Pierce and preparing to search the rest of the home when bullets suddenly rained down.

Pierce, 30, had lived at the rented home for three years with her children and she was the focus of
the arrest warrant for allegedly pointing a gun at the head of a driver last year.

Neighbors said Kevin Sturg is
Kevin Sturg is , 31, of Philadelphia, was Pierce’s boyfriend and that he had been
staying at the home for about five months. Officials have declined to establish their relationship.

As it turned out, he also was wanted for failing to appear in two separate court cases from
Philadelphia.

After Sturgis shot officers and fled the home, neighbors said Pierce ran onto the front porch amid
the chaos and shouted to officers outside: “Don’t kill him! Don’t kill him!”

Pierce’s relatives returned to the home Friday to collect personal belongings for Pierce and her
children. Pierce remained behind bars with a $200,000 bail.

T he children had been inside the home during the initial volley of gunfire T hursday, and then
ushered out the back door, according to neighbors.

T he relatives did not want to comment to PennLive/T he Patriot-News, but Pierce’s father said of
T hursday’s tragedy: “It wasn’t her. It was him.”

T he U.S. Marshal’s team recognized the potential violence that could come with serving the high-
risk warrant, which is why it was scheduled at 6 a.m. But many details from inside the house still
remain unknown as federal and state investigators methodically interview witnesses and officers
and compare physical evidence from the scene.

Newly seated U.S. Attorney David Freed hinted in his comments that there could be a larger story
behind why the elite federal task force was sent to the home.

As far as decision to use the marshal’s service, Freed said, “It’s not just every warrant out there
that the locals call up the marshals and say let’s go grab this person.”

Freed said more information would come out later about the reasons for the tactical raid.
“Although we don’t know at this point,” he said, “we will know what the larger purpose was for them
being there.”

T he bullet holes inside the home were marked with evidence numbers for tracking purposes, but
the numbers aren’t necessarily indicative of the sequential status of each gunshot.

)Bullets and fragments removed from walls and recovered from the scene will be compared to
officers’ guns and the gunman’s weapon.

T he FBI has taken the lead on a criminal investigation that could potentially lead to additional
charges against Pierce.

T he Dauphin County district attorney’s office is heading the investigation into whether the fatal
police shooting of Sturgis was justified.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
Friendly fire killed U.S. marshal - Express-Times, The (Easton, PA) -
March 3, 2018 - page A7
March 3, 2018 | Express-Times, The (Easton, PA) | Christine Vendel | Page A7

Harrisburg

Dauphin County officials has released new details about the friendly-fire death of a deputy U.S.
marshal in January.

T he release came after PennLive reported that Christopher Hill, 45, was killed by another officer’s
Kevin Sturg is .
bullet instead of one fired by Kevin Sturg is

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo confirmed that Hill was struck by a bullet fired by
another officer that came through a wall.

Hill was part of a nine-person task force that was serving a warrant at 1837 Mulberry St. in the
early hours of Jan. 18 to arrest Shayla T owles Pierce. Once officers knocked on the door, entered
the home and arrested Pierce, Hill went into the back of the house, to clear the rest of the first
floor.

While he was in the back dining room, Kevin Sturg is
which faces the front of the home.

Kevin Sturg is  emerged from the second-floor stairwell,

“Are you looking for me?” Sturgis shouted from the stairs before descending and opening fire.

A York city officer was struck in the elbow by Sturgis’ first bullet, Chardo said. T hat prompted
another officer to return fire at Sturgis.

At least two bullets penetrated the wall behind Sturgis, ending up in the dining room where Hill was.

T ask force members who were inside the house retreated through the rear door, according to
Chardo’s statement.

As task force members tended to the wounded, Sturgis exited the front door of the house, Chardo
said, and continued to fire on officers, striking a Harrisburg officer in the chest.

A bullet resistant vest saved his life.

Sturgis was later shot to death in the ensuing gunbattle in the street.

Chardo said his investigation has been completed and that officers were justified in using deadly
force against Sturgis.

Copyrig ht 2018 The Express-Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
Officials piece together chaotic events after - Associated Press News
Service, The - January 19, 2018
January 19, 2018 | Associated Press News Service, The | MARK SCOLFORO Associated Press

HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) — Investigators are working to piece together the chaotic sequence of
events that led to a deputy U.S. marshal being shot to death while serving an arrest warrant in
Pennsylvania's capital city.

Forty-five-year-old Christopher David Hill was killed early Thursday when a gunman opened fire on
law enforcement officers serving an arrest warrant inside a Harrisburg home.

Authorities say police were on the first floor handcuffing the woman they were seeking to arrest
when 31-year-old Kevin Sturg is
Sturgis was fatally shot as he later ran out the front door, again firing at police.

Kevin Sturg is , of Philadelphia, began firing from the second floor. T hey say

T he county coroner says Hill died of a gunshot wound to the chest. Another member of the
fugitive task force also was shot and wounded.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Associated Press All Rights Reserved

 
Police get donation of bullet-resistant vests, - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - February 7, 2019 - page 001
February 7, 2019 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Travis Kellar tkellar@pennlive.com | Page 001

After the fatal shooting of deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher Hill last year, city officials realized they
needed to modernize their safety equipment to better protect the city’s police officers.

Emergency department nurses at UPMC Pinnacle also saw that need, and took “a project of
service” over the summer, raising $20,000 to make that happen. T he PinnacleHealth Foundation
contributed more money.

On Wednesday, more than 120 pieces of protective equipment — vests, steel plates and helmets
— were presented to Harrisburg police by UPMC Pinnacle officials.

“As UPMC Pinnacle ED nurses, we are as invested in preventing illness and injury as we are in
helping to heal,” said Kathy Flinn, nursing director of emergency services for UPMC Pinnacle. “When
our nurses realized that the Harrisburg Police Department did not have enough life-saving ballistic
vests for all police officers, they quickly sprang into action.”

More than 530 people participated in the 3.2 to Protect the Blue fundraiser organized by the
nurses. T he event had a slight moderation — a 5k race is typically 3.1 miles, but runners in the
event ran an additional tenth of a mile in honor of current officers and those who have fallen in the
line of duty.

UPMC Pinnacle purchased the safety equipment from Body Armor Megastore in Pennsylvania,
which donated 10 additional body armor vest sets.

In total, the equipment cost about $40,000.

T he vests differ from what officers ordinarily wear during their shifts, as they provide protection
against most high-caliber weapons.

In total, 40 Body Armor Level III Ballistic Vests (with steel plates, liners, and pads), 20 additional
steel plates and 60 helmets were given to city police.

T he equipment would not be used by officers on a daily basis. Rather, they will sign out the
equipment when and if the need arises, said Sgt. T om McGarrity.

He declined to go into specifics as to what sort of assault the new equipment can withstand.

“It’s definitely more capable than the standard body armor, the soft body armor, worn by our
officers in the street,” McGarrity said, adding the new equipment “keeps us safer longer, and lets
us do our job more effectively.

Deputy Chief Deric Moody explained that for a normal shift, officers use soft armor that is pliable
— if officers needed to use the heavier equipment, they would put it on over whatever armor they
were already wearing.

“Previous to now, there was no ballistic armor that we had,” Moody said. “We now have enough to
field our officers that are working.”

Moody added that while the department is better equipped, the goal moving forward is to ensure it
stays that way.

Both Hill and Chief T om Carter said the equipment was purchased with the idea of equipping
officers for the threats they face daily.

Carter recalled his own tenure as an officer working in the streets.

“When we had a homicide back then, over 30 years ago, we thought that we had the proper vests
on that would stop bullets and would save our lives,” Carter said, stressing that officers today often
go into scenes without knowing what dangers they may face. “T hrough time, things change.”

Deputy U.S. Marshal Hill was killed by friendly fire Jan. 18, 2018, while serving an arrest warrant with
a task force of law enforcement officers. Police say Kevin Sturg is
were arresting his girlfriend inside the Harrisburg home but he did not fire the fatal shot that killed
Hill.

Kevin Sturg is  opened fire on police as they

Harrisburg police officer Jeff Cook was also shot during the raid, but was wearing a bullet-resistant
vest with a steel plate, which saved him.

After the raid, “it became clear that there were things we needed to do in terms of modernizing
our safety equipment, protecting our officers,” said Mayor Eric Papenfuse.

Following the shooting, city officials announced plans to purchase more body armor using a
Dauphin County gaming grant.

Copyrig ht, 2019, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
Woman at shootout persecuted, lawyer says - - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - February 4, 2018 - page A7
February 4, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Matt Miller | Page A7

HARRISBURG

A Harrisburg woman is being persecuted by authorities simply because she was present when a
deputy U.S. marshal was fatally shot in her home last month, her lawyer insisted T hursday.

Defense Attorney Aaron Holt made that argument as he urged District Judge Hanif Johnson to
reduce the $200,000 bail that is keeping 30-year-old Shayla Pierce in prison on charges of simple
assault and making terroristic threats.

T he charges stem from a Nov. 25 incident. T hey were the subject of an arrest warrant a marshal’s
task force used to enter Pierce’s Mulberry Street home during a Jan. 18 raid that resulted in the
Kevin Sturg is .
deaths of Deputy Marshal Christopher Hill and Pierce’s boyfriend, Kevin Sturg is

T hursday’s preliminary hearing before Johnson dealt only with the simple assault/terroristic threats
case, which the judge sent on to Dauphin County Court. T hat case involves allegations that Pierce
threatened a neighbor with a gun during a dispute over double-parking.

T he fatal police raid wasn’t even mentioned until Holt made his plea for a bail reduction. He called
Pierce’s bail “exorbitant,” far higher than warranted for a mere assault case. “I believe it would be in
everyone’s best interest for my client to be allowed to go home,” Holt said.

“It’s a gun case,” Chief Deputy District Attorney Michael Rozman countered. “You point a gun at
someone and threaten to shoot them, that’s serious.”

Holt became visibly angry. He said Pierce is being scapegoated because an officer lost his life. “T he
law is using all its power to come down on her,” he said. “Everybody is trying to see her hang for
something she didn’t do.”

“I wanted to make sure I got that out because it’s the truth,” Holt added.

Rozman suggested Holt file a bail reduction petition with a county judge. Holt insisted that Johnson
should make the call on bail.

“I’m not touching the bail,” Johnson said.

T hursday’s hearing focused on charges that Pierce, a mother of three, pointed a pistol at another
woman during an argument over Pierce’s decision to double-park her car and block traffic in the
1800 block of Mulberry Street.

T erri Littles testified that she and other drivers were honking for Pierce to move her car, to no
avail. Littles said she knocked on Pierce’s door to ask her to move her car.

“She said it was in front of her house and she’d do what she wanted,” Littles said. “She got smart.
She slammed the door.”

Littles said she was on her phone with the police when Pierce came out of her home, rifled through
the trunk of her car, then began arguing with her.

“And then she pulled out a gun,” Littles said. It was silver and black, possibly a Glock 9, she said. She
said Pierce pointed the pistol at her twice as neighbors urged Pierce to put the gun away.

“She said, ‘I’ll shoot you,’ or, ‘I’ll blow your brains out’,” Littles said.

Under Holt’s questioning, Littles said she had gotten out of her car when Pierce first displayed the
gun. Holt asked if the women were cursing at each other.

“I can’t deny it,” Littles replied. “It was in the moment. I had to go to work. Everyone was beeping.”

Littles, who is much larger than Pierce, said she did move toward Pierce after the gun was drawn. “I
was just so furious,” she said.

T he only other witness Rozman called was city police Officer Rachel James. She testified that Pierce
isn’t licensed to carry a concealed gun.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
Deputy U.S. marshal who led Frein hunt is fatally - Pike County Courier,
The (Dingman-Milford, PA) - January 25, 2018
January 25, 2018 | Pike County Courier, The (Dingman-Milford, PA)

A deputy U.S. marshal who led the massive 2014 Poconos manhunt for trooper killer Eric Frein was
fatally shot in Philadelphia last Friday.

A gunman opened fire on law enforcement officers serving an arrest warrant inside a home before
dawn on Jan. 18, killing Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher David Hill before he was shot to death by
police as he fled outside, authorities said.

Hill, 45, an Army veteran who has been with the service more than a decade, died of a gunshot
wound to the chest, the county coroner said. Another member of the fugitive task force, York City
Police Officer Kyle Pitts, also was hit by gunfire, but his injuries were not considered life-
threatening.

U.S. Attorney Dave Freed said there are indications a third officer may have been struck in his body
armor but was not wounded.

U.S. Marshal Martin Pane said Hill belonged to an elite special operations group within the agency
and took a lead role in the fugitive Eric Frein in 2014. Frein was subsequently convicted and
sentenced to death for killing a state trooper.

"Chris is just one of those guys that rises to the top," Pane said. "Chris is the cream of the crop.
He's one of our best and . you would probably not find a better tactical operator in the state of
Pennsylvania."

"None of us has sufficient words to express our grief and sorrow," Freed said.

Police were on the first floor handcuffing the woman they were seeking to arrest when 31-year-old
Kevin Sturg is
Kevin Sturg is , of Philadelphia, began firing from the second floor, said Freed. Sturgis was fatally
shot as he later ran out the front door, again shooting at police, he said.

Sturgis had active warrants in Philadelphia for not showing up to be sentenced on a gun charge
and failing to appear at a probation violation hearing. Hill and Pitts were removed from the back of
the house during the confrontation after being shot.

Hill died at a hospital. He is survived by a wife and two children. He served with the U.S. Army in
Afghanistan before being hired by the marshal service in 2006.

In a statement issued from Washington, Attorney General Jeff Sessions described law
enforcement as heartbroken over Hill's death. He said the officer's name should be recalled as a
synonym for valor.

"Every day, deputy U.S. marshals make the people of this country safer by catching fugitives on the
run, protecting our courthouses, our judges and witnesses at trial," Sessions said. "T hey achieve
these critical accomplishments at often heroic risk."

Gov. T om Wolf ordered state flags to fly at half-staff in Hill's honor until his interment.

T he shooting occurred less than 2 miles (3 kilometers) from the state Capitol in a working class
neighborhood of duplexes, single-family homes and commercial buildings.

Related story:

"Frein captured, charged with murder": http://bit.ly/2BuPMP0

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Pike County Courier, The (Ding man-Milford, PA), All Rights Reserved.

 
US Marshal, 45, from York County 'died a hero - Evening Sun, The
(Hanover, PA) - January 21, 2018 - page A11
January 21, 2018 | Evening Sun, The (Hanover, PA) | Anthony J. Machcinski and Brandie Kessler | Page A11

U.S. Deputy Marshal Christopher David Hill of Conewago Township 'died a hero' T hursday
morning.

T he 45-year-old father of two was killed in a shootout while serving a warrant in Harrisburg around
6 a.m.

York City Police Officer Kyle Pitts also was wounded. A Harrisburg police officer was struck in his
body armor by a projectile, and was not seriously wounded.

T he men were executing a warrant for the arrest of Shayla Lynette T owles Pierce, who was
wanted by the Harrisburg Bureau of Police for terroristic threat offenses.

While arresting Pierce, the officers heard gunfire coming from the second floor of the house,
officials said. Soon after, a man ran out the front of the home, firing at the officers. T he officers
returned fire, killing the man later identified as Kevin Sturg is

Kevin Sturg is , 31, of Philadelphia.

Pierce was taken into custody.

Officials were not sure of the relationship between Sturgis and Pierce. U.S. Attorney Dave Freed
said there were multiple children in the house at the time, and that all were safe.

Sturgis had two active warrants from Philadelphia, according to a news release from Freed's office.
One was for failure to appear for sentencing on a firearms charge. T he other was for failure to
appear for a probation hearing related to drug and stolen property charges. Sturgis also had been
found guilty of rape when he was a juvenile, the news release states.

Who was Christopher Hill?

Hill, an 11-year veteran of the U.S. Marshals, worked at the U.S. Capitol before being transferred to
Harrisburg in 2009. During the Eric Frein manhunt, Hill was chosen to lead a large group that
conducted woodland searches for Frein.

Hill was an Army veteran who served from 1993-1996. He joined the Marshals Service in 2006 in
Washington, D.C., and transferred to Harrisburg in 2009. He is survived by his wife and two
children.

Hill received the distinguished group award for significant contributions in Afghanistan.

State Sen. Mike Regan, who served as U.S. Marshal in Harrisburg until his retirement in 2011, called

Hill "a heck of a guy."

"Just a really neat guy, very highly-trained," Regan said T hursday. "He also had a very humorous
side, fun-loving. It really seemed the other deputies gravitated toward him."

Regan said Hill was part of the U.S. Marshals Special Operations Group, an elite, nationwide SWAT -
style tactical arm of the agency.

"At a moment's notice, he might be gone, anywhere in the country," handling prisoner transport or
security for high-profile criminal cases, he said. "He was probably as tactically sound as anybody in
the country."

"He was a special guy, he truly was," Regan said.

Hill lived with his family in the Northeastern School District.

"We are going to support our kids and the family however they feel they need it," a spokesperson
for the district said.

"Christopher Hill died a hero today," Freed said at a news conference in Harrisburg. "We will honor
his memory with his brothers and sisters in law enforcement. We will provide answers to Deputy
Marshall Hill's family."

David J. Anderson, acting deputy director for the U.S. Marshals Service, said Hill "was a devoted
public servant who dedicated his life to making his community and this nation safer. We will never
forget his commitment and courage. T he nation lost a hero today."

Hill had close ties to York City Police

York City Police Chief Troy Bankert said his department also knew Hill well.

"T he loss of him is felt upon this police department quite a bit," Bankert said during a news
conference Thursday afternoon.

York Police Sgt. Craig Losty lives down the street from Hill. Losty didn't know Hill, but he'd
sometimes see him outside playing basketball with his son, or he'd notice that Hill had already left
for work by the time Losty was leaving the neighborhood.

Hill was a law enforcement brother, and his death was tragic, Losty said.

"It's a tragedy whether I knew him or not," Losty said.

Losty has been with the city department for 26 years. It's a job he loves, he said. But when he
comes home, he goes about life just like everyone else.

Early Thursday evening, he let his cats outside to sniff around in the snow. T hey were eyeing up a
bird that had perched in a tree in his front yard.

Police officers are just like everyone else, albeit their jobs are more dangerous than most, Losty
said. He wished that more people realized that.

"At the end of the day ... people don't see that human side of us," Losty said. "T he biggest thing
people need to realize is that police officers are neighbors, police officers hand out candy on
Halloween, police officers put lights out on Christmas."

When tragedy strikes, that's when people pause and consider the sacrifice police officers make,
Losty said. Like with Hill's death and with the death of Baltimore Detective Sean Suiter, who was
killed in the line of duty in November and who lived in Conewago Township just a few miles from
Hill and Losty's neighborhood.

A lot of time, Losty said, the job doesn't define how a police officer lives his or her life. Losty thinks
it's likely that many of the people in his neighborhood didn't know that Hill was in law enforcement.

But Hill's death will be felt across the law enforcement family, Losty said, noting it's likely that law
enforcement will come from all over, from out of state, to pay their respects at Hill's funeral.

But Thursday night, Losty thought of Hill's family, his wife and children.

"When all is said and done, at the end of today, it's just tragic," Losty said. "Somebody's going to
not have a father and husband."

York City Police officer injured

As for injured York Officer Kyle Pitts, he was being treated at Hershey Medical Center for non-life
threatening injuries. He was assigned to the U.S. Marshals T ask Force, according to a York news
release.

He is the father of three girls and has been a part of the York City Police Department for 10 years.

Reporters T ed Czech, Brandie Kessler and Teresa Boeckel contributed to this report.

Copyrig ht © 2018 The Hanover Evening  Sun.

 
Task force was sent to serve warrant - Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg,
PA) - January 21, 2018 - page A10
January 21, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Christine Vendel | Page A10

A team of officers swarmed a home the 1800 block of Mulberry Street in Harrisburg on T hursday
with the stated goal to arrest Shayla Lynette T owles Pierce on an outstanding warrant.

T he early morning raid kicked off a firefight that killed a deputy U.S. marshal, wounded another
officer and left the suspected gunman dead.

According to court records, Pierce, 30, had been accused of pulling a gun from her purse, without a
concealed-carry permit, last year and threatening to shoot another woman.

T he victim told police she encountered a driver on Nov. 25 parked in the middle of the street in the
1800 block of Mulberry. She did not know the woman driving the car, but asked the driver to move,
since she was blocking traffic.

T he driver then got out of the car and allegedly pointed the gun at the victim’s head.

“I’ll shoot you,” the driver said, according to court records, before lowering the gun and then raising
it a second time. “I’ll shoot her dumb (expletive.)”

As the driver left, the victim snapped a photo of the license plate.

T he driver was gone when police arrived, but officers checked the tag number from the photo and
noted it returned to Shayla Pierce, who lives in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street.

It’s unclear what efforts, if any, were taken to arrest Pierce over the last month and a half since the
crime.

Police knew her name, what her car looked like and her address in late November. But no known
action was taken to arrest Pierce until Thursday’s raid by the U.S. Marshal’s Service, just after 6
a.m.

While the crime allegedly involving Pierce was disturbing, it wasn’t the kind of case typically handled
by the marshals service, which specializes in high-value, high-risk fugitives.

Pierce was facing a third-degree felony and some misdemeanor charges.

T hat could indicate that police had their eye on someone else.

Kevin Sturg is , 31, was inside Pierce’s home T hursday. T he Philadelphia man was wanted for two
Kevin Sturg is
outstanding warrants.

Newly-seated U.S. Attorney David Freed said more information would come out later about the
reasons for the tactical raid.

“Although we don’t know at this point,” he said, “we will know what the larger purpose was for them
being there.”

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
Hotels cut rates for ‘friends in blue’ - - Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg,
PA) - January 23, 2018 - page A3
January 23, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Barbara Miller | Page A3

DEPUT Y U.S. MARSHAL SLAIN

Some area hotels are offering discounts for police officers who will be attending the memorial
service Thursday for a deputy U.S. marshal who died in the line of duty last week.

Also, donors can pay for hotel rooms that are being booked by law enforcement in the “buy a
room for a friend in blue” program.

A public memorial service for Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher Hill will be held at 1 p.m. Thursday in
the Giant Center in Hershey.

“All are welcome to attend and commemorate the life of the fallen hero,” says his obituary.

Volunteer Kara Johnsen, a police wife, contacted hotels to ask if they would accept donations for
law enforcement coming into town for the memorial service. So far 10 are on the list, including
Clarion Inn & Suites in Susquehanna T ownship, Residence Inn Harrisburg/Hershey, Country Inn and
Suites in Lower Paxton T ownship, Sheraton Harrisburg/Hershey, Fairvield Inn & Suites in Hershey,
Crowne Plaza Harrisburg, Ramada Inn in Lower Paxton T ownship, Red Lion Hotel in Lower Paxton
T ownship,

Sleep Inn & Suites in Swatara Township and Quality Inn in Lower Paxton T ownship.

Katie Ibberson, whose husband is the township fire chief, said several years ago she had attended
a law enforcement funeral in upstate New York, and learned her hotel room was paid for by the
people of the town.

“We never forgot that. When I heard officers would be coming from around the country, I wanted
to do something,” she said.

Ibberson said her private Facebook group of wives of law enforcement and emergency services
has grown from 20 to 1,200 members in 36 hours.

In addition to the hotel project, she set up a You Caring page she created has raised about $975 so
far toward a $15,000 goal. T hey are also organizing meals for the Hill family, selling T -shirts and
stickers, and making gift baskets for the Hill children.

Ibberson said wives also offered support for the widow of Lt. Dennis DeVoe, a Harrisburg
firefighter who died in a crash on the way to a fatal fire in March 2017.

On Jan. 18, Hill, an 11-year veteran of the U.S. Marshals Service assigned to the Middle District of
Pennsylvania, was part of a Marshals Service task force executing a warrant in Harrisburg, when he
was shot and killed.

Also shot was York police officer Kyle Pitts, who is recovering from a wound to his elbow.

Investigators say the marshals went to a home in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street to arrest
Shayla T owles Pierce, when 31-year-old Kevin Sturg is
Pitts. Sturgis died after police returned fire.

Kevin Sturg is  opened fire on them, killing Hill and injuring

Harrisburg police said a ballistic vest may have saved the life of one of its officers. Jeffrey Cook, a
27-year veteran, was struck in the chest by gunfire, but the vest stopped the bullet from causing
any injury. Cook has served three assignments, totaling six years, with the U.S. Marshal’s T ask
Force since 1997.

Hill, 45, was born April 1972 in Sacramento, California, to John David Hill and Katherine (Carroll) Hill.

He served his country as a Ranger in the U.S. Army for three years before becoming a deputy U.S.
marshal.

“Chris was known for enjoying hunting and golfing with friends and family. More importantly, Chris
was best known for his devotion to his loving family,” says his obituary.

Christopher was preceded in death by his mother, Katherine (Carroll) Hill.

Surviving are his wife, Sylvia Nicole (Lee) Hill; son Travis Hill and daughter, Ashlynn Hill; his father,
John David Hill; his brother, Joey Hill and wife Michala of Florida; and his sister, Melinda Wagner of
South Carolina.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
The Latest: Prosecutors identify man who killed US - Associated Press
State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA) - January 19, 2018
January 19, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA)

HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) — T he Latest on the killing of a deputy U.S. marshal in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania (all times local):

Prosecutors have identified a 31-year-old Philadelphia man as the shooter who killed a U.S. marshal
before being shot to death by police.

T he U.S. attorney's office says Kevin Sturg is
fugitive task force showed up at a home in Harrisburg early Thursday to arrest a woman who lives
there.

Kevin Sturg is  had two active warrants from Philadelphia when a

Authorities say Sturgis was wanted for not showing up to be sentenced on a gun charge and failing
to appear at a probation violation hearing.

Investigators say they were arresting the woman when Sturgis began firing from the second floor,
killing 45-year-old Christopher David Hill and wounding a York City police officer.

Officials say Sturgis subsequently exited the home and was killed by police as he shot at officers.

5:50 p.m.

___

2 p.m.

Authorities say that a man who fatally shot a U.S. marshal serving a warrant in Pennsylvania's
capital city was killed by return fire.

U.S. Attorney David Freed revealed the details about the fatal Thursday morning encounter in
Harrisburg. He didn't identify the dead suspect.

T he slain marshal was 45-year-old Christopher David Hill, an 11-year veteran of the agency. He
died at a hospital in Harrisburg.

Authorities say Hill was part of a team of officers serving a warrant for the arrest of a woman
wanted by Harrisburg police for making threats. Freed says the man in the home opened fire after
the fugitive, Shayla Lynette T owles Pierce, was handcuffed.

Authorities say a York City police officer had non-life-threatening injuries.

T he service says Hill is an Army veteran who is survived by his wife and two children.

T he U.S. Marshals Service says an agent who was fatally shot while serving an arrest warrant in
Pennsylvania's capital city was an 11-year veteran of the agency.

T he U.S. Marshals Service says 45-year-old Christopher David Hill died Thursday morning at a
hospital in Harrisburg.

Authorities say Hill was part of a team serving a warrant for the arrest of a fugitive suspect wanted
by Harrisburg police for making threats. T he marshals service says a man in the home opened fire,
hitting Hill and two other officers.

T he marshals service identified the suspect as Shayla Lynette T owles Pierce. T he fate of Pierce
and the man who shot at the officers was unclear.

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo has said there is no current danger to the public.
More information was expected at an afternoon news conference.

T he service says Hill is an Army veteran who is survived by his wife and two children.

T he mayor of Harrisburg says a U.S. marshal is dead after being shot while serving an arrest
warrant in Pennsylvania's capital city.

Mayor Eric Papenfuse says two other officers were wounded in the Thursday morning shooting,
including one from Harrisburg.

T he York City Police Department says one of its officers had non-life threatening injuries.

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo says the officers were part of a U.S. Marshals
Service task force and multiple agencies were involved.

He says there is no current danger to the public. Papenfuse says the suspect was critically
wounded by officers.

He says more information will be given at an afternoon news conference.

____

1:45 p.m.

____

10:30 a.m.

___

10 a.m.

An official says multiple law enforcement officers have been injured while serving an arrest warrant
in Harrisburg and shots were fired.

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo says the officers were taken by ambulance to a
hospital T hursday. He didn't say how they had been injured or specify what types of injuries they
had.

T here were reports of shots fired just after 6 a.m. in the area.

Chardo says the officers were part of a U.S. Marshals Service task force and multiple agencies
were involved.

He says there is no current danger to the public. He says the suspect is not at large, but wouldn't
say if that person is in custody or what that person's condition is.

He says more information will be given at an afternoon news conference.

___

8:50 a.m.

An official says multiple police officers have been injured while serving an early morning warrant in
Pennsylvania's capital city.

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo tells Pennlive.com the officers were taken by
ambulance to a Harrisburg hospital T hursday. He didn't say how they had been injured or specify
what types of injuries they had.

T here were reports of shots fired before 6:30 a.m. in the area.

Chardo says one person was shot by police but couldn't speak about that person's condition.

Officers clearing the residence say the shooting suspect was inside, but there's no word on that
person's condition or whether that person is in custody.

No other information is available.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Prosecutor: Gunman hit 18 times, marshal killed in - Associated Press
State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA) - March 7, 2018
March 7, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA)

HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) — A prosecutor says a man who fired on officers serving a warrant in
January was himself shot 18 times.

Kevin Sturg is
Pennlive.com reports Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo said suspect Kevin Sturg is
was killed when a bullet pierced his aorta during the shootout with officers.

Authorities disclosed last week Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher Hill was killed by a friendly fire
wound to the armpit during the Jan. 18 shootout at a Harrisburg home.

Chardo says Sturgis' first shot wounded an officer in the elbow and he fired another shot that hit a
task force member in a bullet-resistant vest.

He says Sturgis pointed a pistol at an officer before the officer fatally shot him. Chardo ruled police
were justified in shooting Sturgis.

Chardo says seven of Sturgis' 18 wounds grazed him.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Officials say marshal slain on duty was hit by - Associated Press State
Wire: Pennsylvania (PA) - March 2, 2018
March 2, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Pennsylvania (PA)

HARRISBURG, Pa. (AP) — Authorities say a deputy U.S. marshal shot and killed while serving a
warrant in Pennsylvania was struck by a bullet fired through a wall by a fellow officer and not by a
gunman who opened fire on police.

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo said Thursday that conclusion was made after
laboratory tests were performed on material related to the Jan. 18 death of Deputy Marshal
Christopher Hill.

Chardo says 31-year-old Kevin Sturg is
him to death outside the home in Harrisburg.

Kevin Sturg is  fired the first shot and that police were justified in shooting

At the time, T he Associated Press and other news outlets reported it was a bullet fired by Sturgis
that killed the 45-year-old Hill. T he U.S. Marshals Service says ballistics and forensics contradict
those initial indications.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Deputy U.S. Marshal killed in line of duty to be - Daily Item, The
(Sunbury, PA) - August 12, 2018
August 12, 2018 | Daily Item, The (Sunbury, PA) | Joe Sylvester

U.S. Marshal Christopher Hill died while protecting the public.

And though he also was a football hero at Warrior Run High School, he was humble.

"I was amazed that at the services at the Giant Center in Hershey, a lot of his fellow marshals
never knew he played football or knew he was as good as he was," commented Buddy Johnson,
who was the Warrior Run High School quarterback in the late 1980s when Hill was a star tailback.

Johnson and teammate Justin Blakeney are leading the drive to memorialize Hill by retiring his
football jersey number — 32. T hat will happen Aug. 31, during halftime of Warrior Run's first home
football game, when the Defenders play Milton Area.

Hill, 45, was shot and killed while assisting in serving a warrant on a woman inside a Harrisburg
home Jan. 18. T he Dauphin County District Attorney's Office revealed on March 1 that Hill, a
member of a U.S. Marshals Fugitive T ask Force that included local and state law enforcement, was
Kevin Sturg is , 31, and a bullet
killed by friendly fire when another task force member was firing at Kevin Sturg is
passed through a wall and struck Hill. T ask force members shot and killed Sturgis when he ran
from the home while shooting at police.

Warrior Run Superintendent Alan Hack said the idea to retire Hill's number came from some of his
fellow players.

"Some of his former teammates approached the district about doing something in his memory,"
Hack said. "T hey asked to retire his football number during the first home football game of the
season."

Athletic Director Nate Butler said Johnson and Blakeney wanted to do something and approached
their former coach, T ed McPherrin, to help them.

"It kind of grew from there," he said.

Butler said there will be a tent set up behind the east end zone, where a video about Hill will play on
a continuing loop. Johnson and Blakeney will be there to answer questions about Hill.

Butler said the school also will hold a student assembly that afternoon. Hill's wife and children, who
now live in Florida, are expected to fly in to attend. Johnson and Blakeney will speak.

Johnson said he kept thinking about Hill after his death and what his close group of friends could do
for Hill and his family. T hey approached McPherrin, who scheduled a meeting with Hack.

"From that moment forward, we had the support and blessing of the (Warrior Run) administration,
school board, athletic department and community," Johnson explained in an email. "T he positive
impact that Chris Hill had on all those he met was astounding."

He said the purpose of the assembly is to inform the student body who Chris Hill was and of the
numerous heroic things he did serving his country.

"Let them know the extraordinary husband, father, brother, son and friend he was. Show a
slideshow of Chris from youth to adulthood. Friends, family, U.S. Army Ranger, U.S. Marshal Service
SOG (Special Operations Group) team member. His wife, Sylvia, and children will be in attendance.
As will state Senator Mike Regan (R-31, of Harrisburg)," Johnson said.

He said longtime teacher, coach and historian John Corman will serve as master of ceremonies at
halftime where a framed jersey bearing number 32 will be retired and dedicated. Johnson and
Blakeney plan to address the football team and distribute No. 32 helmet stickers to wear all
season.

Johnson said that as a player, Hill was "electric." He had speed, agility, good vision and power.

"He would dish out compliments regularly and knew the true meaning of team," Johnson added.
"As a leader, Chris was hardworking, dedicated, determined, relentless, understanding and had a
heart of gold. He picked us up numerous times. Now it's our turn to pick him up. I just wish I could
reach out my hand, scoop him up from the grass and hear that laugh. Honoring the outstanding
kid he was and the honorable man he became will suffice."

He said retiring Hill's jersey will help in the healing process.

"When we got together he wanted to hear what we were doing in our life, hear about our families.
Very humble," Johnson said. "Our brother was a U.S. Marshal, but he wanted to learn about our life
experiences. Others first. Humble. T hat was Chris."

Copyrig ht 2018, The Daily Item / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 
‘A team leader’ - Lifelong friends recall - Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg,
PA) - January 21, 2018 - page A9
January 21, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | John Beauge | Page A9

Andy Kline had expected to see his lifelong friend Christopher Hill this weekend, when Hill planned
to visit his father in rural Union County.

Hill, a deputy U.S. marshal who lived in Conewago T ownship, York County, was shot and killed
T hursday while serving a warrant in Harrisburg. Another officer was wounded in the exchange that
ended when police shot and killed Hill’s assailant.

T he death of the 45-year-old Hill, hailed by law enforcement around the nation as a hero, has
devastated the community around Warrior Run High School, in the rural area between Allenwood
and New Columbia where Hill grew up.

“It’s a total shock,” said Cathy Grow, who graduated from the high school in 1991, one year after
Hill.

“He was a super nice guy,” Grow said. “He would do anything for anyone.”

His friends said that when they think of Hill, they remember his smile.

“Every time he greeted you he had the biggest smile,” Kline said “He never complained about
anything. Everything he did was positive.”

“You knew Chris was in the room from his smile and laugh,” said Shamokin Dam Police Chief T im
Bremigen, another friend since childhood. “He always had a way of motivating.”

Kline’s friendship with Hill began in kindergarten in Watsontown Elementary School in 1976. T he
two and three other friends had remained closed.

“We had a tight group of friends,” Kline said.

Kline invited Hill to his cabin last weekend, but Hill chose to stay home and attend one of his
children’s athletic events, Kline said. Hill was on the road a lot, so liked to spend time with his wife
and two young children when he was home, Kline said.

But Hill and Kline had planned to get together this weekend, when Hill was going to visit his father,
John, who still lives in Union County.

T here was a lot of open space near the home and Kline said the two spent many hours hunting
and fishing around there when they were young.

Hill was captain of the high school track team. As a running back on the football team, he rushed
for nearly 1,000 yards, Kline said.

Warrior Run School District records show Hill, in his senior season in 1989, led the team with 966
yards rushing. He scored 11 touchdowns and caught eight passes.

“He was very much a team leader,” Bremigen said.

After high school Kline and Hill both attended Waynesburg College in western Pennsylvania. Hill left
school to become an Army ranger.

He could rock climb, repel and parachute, Kline said.

“He wanted to be the best at everything he did,” he said.

And by all accounts, Hill was among the best.

He served in Afghanistan, worked in Washington, D.C., and rose to the top of the U.S. Marshal’s
Service, according to the leader of the agency.

Hill had been working out of the Harrisburg office since 2009 after a stint in Washington, D.C. T he
following year, he was assigned to the prestigious “special operations group,” with a focus on
fugitive apprehension, according to U.S. Marshal Martin Pane. T he group members represent the
top one percent of deputy marshals, he said.

T he group is highly trained, and its members would have been prepared for any assignment or
situation, Pane said.

“You don’t get into that unit unless you have special skill sets,” Pane said at a news conference
T hursday, eight hours after Hill was mortally wounded. “T actically... you probably would not find a
better tactical operator in the state of Pennsylvania.”

Pane called Hill: “the cream of the crop.”

Hill was inside a house in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street about 6:10 a.m. Thursday with two
other officers and they had arrested a woman on an outstanding warrant. T he woman, Shayla
Lynette T owles Pierce, was in handcuffs.

T hat’s when bullets suddenly rained down from the second-floor, from the top of the stairs, hitting
Hill and another member of the task force, Kyle Pitts, officials said.

Pitts is also an officer of the York City Police Department. Pitts was wounded in the right elbow. He
underwent surgery on T hursday, and is expected to survive.

Additional officers opened the back door and pulled out their wounded comrades.

T he gunman, identified by police as Kevin Sturg is

Kevin Sturg is , 31, of Philadelphia, then ran downstairs and

fired at officers as he barged out the front door, according to officials. A Harrisburg officer struck
by a projectile that hit his bullet-resistant vest fired back at Sturgis, killing him.

Pierce, 30, was wanted by the Harrisburg Bureau of Police on charges of illegal possession of a
firearm, a third degree felony, simple assault and terroristic threats.

U.S. Attorney David Freed said the gunman, Sturgis, was wanted on one warrant for failure to
appear for sentencing on a charge of persons not to possess firearms, a second-degree felony.

He also was wanted on a second warrant for failure to appear for a violation of probation hearing
on original charges of receiving stolen property, unlawful possession of a controlled substance and
unauthorized use of a motor vehicle.

Sturgis also had a juvenile adjudication (analogous to a criminal conviction in adult court) on a
charge of rape, according to the U.S. attorney’s office.

T he nature of Sturgis’ relationship with Pierce was unclear, although neighbors said he was her
boyfriend. She was committed to Dauphin County Prison in lieu of $200,000 bail.

As part of Hill’s career, Hill commanded a group of marshals involved in the drawn-out manhunt
through dense forests for Eric Frein in 2014 after Frein killed a state trooper and wounded a
second trooper in an ambush.

Hill also was a firearms instructor and trained in explosives used to help distract suspects as
officers enter buildings, which is known as “breaching.”

Pane said Hill won the U.S. Marshals Service Distinguished Group award for “significant
contributions” in an effort to establish a judicial system in Afghanistan.

“T his is a man who served his country over there with the U.S. Marshals Service, helping to stand
up justice,” Pane said. “But this morning, Deputy Hill made the ultimate sacrifice.”

Hill previously served in the Army from 1993 to 1996, including an overseas assignment to
Afghanistan.

Every year, Hill and his four childhood friends would get together for an outing at Eagle Mere, Kline
said. T his year, when they gather in March, there will be a hole in the close-knit group.

“It’s going to be hard for us,” Kline said.

Staff writer Christine Vendel contributed to this report.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
NEVER AGAIN - Earlier chances to arrest woman - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - January 25, 2018 - page A1
January 25, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Christine Vendel | Page A1

DEPUT Y U.S. MARSHAL SLAIN

T he woman at the center of a fatal U.S. marshal’s raid last week in Harrisburg had appeared in
court twice in recent weeks but nobody checked to see if she had an outstanding arrest warrant.

Had authorities at the Dauphin County Courthouse checked the name of Shayla Lynette T owles
Pierce when she appeared in court on Dec. 12 and Jan. 4 on an old case, they could have arrested
her on either occasion.

Instead, 14 days later, nine members of a U.S. marshal’s fugitive task force went to her home in
the 1800 block of Mulberry Street to arrest her on the new charges.

During the early morning tactical raid, her boyfriend Kevin Sturg is
Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher Hill and wounding York Officer Kyle Pitts in the arm.

Kevin Sturg is  opened fire on officers, killing

Harrisburg Officer Jeff Cook also was shot in the chest but was not wounded because of his
protective vest.

T he raid would have been avoided if authorities at the courthouse arrested Pierce last month or
earlier this month when she appeared to face a 2012 simple assault charge.

T he situation illustrates a systemic flaw in warrant checks at the courthouse due to an
overwhelming number of criminal cases.

Officials on Wednesday said they were working on solutions to fix the flaw.

“I don’t want this to ever happen again,” said Chief Deputy Jack Duignan of the Dauphin County
Sheriff’s office. “I think we can do better.”

Duignan said officials from his office, the district attorney’s office and court administrators were
looking for a way to check every defendant scheduled for court for outstanding arrest warrants.
Each office as well as local police departments have a responsibility in checking defendants on the
docket, he said.

It’s more efficient to arrest wanted defendants when they’re in court, Duignan said, instead of
trying to chase them down later in the streets or in their homes.

T here has been widespread speculation that Pierce was not the ultimate target of the Jan. 18 raid,
because the marshal’s service specializes in fugitives who have crossed municipal or state

boundaries.

Her boyfriend from Philadelphia appeared to be a more likely target of a marshal’s raid. He had
outstanding warrants from Philadelphia, but officers would not have had the authority to enter
Pierce’s house to look for Sturgis without a special search warrant for him.

T o get a warrant for Sturgis, officers would have to provide probable cause that he was at the
house.

But an arrest warrant for Pierce would allow officers to enter the home and arrest anyone in there
for outstanding warrants as long as they had a reasonable belief that Pierce was inside.

In Pierce’s new case, she was facing a felony charge for having a gun in her purse without a
concealed carry permit and two misdemeanors for an incident in front of her home on Nov. 25.
She allegedly pointed the gun at another driver’s head when the driver asked her to move her car
that was blocking traffic.

Police filed the charges against her in that case on Dec. 2 and the judge issued an arrest warrant
the same day, entering it into a national database.

T en days later, Pierce appeared in court to face a simple assault charge from November 2012
where she was accused of punching her 14-year-old daughter in the face multiple times, causing
her nose and mouth to bleed.

Pierce again appeared in court Jan. 4, and successfully argued that she was allowed to discipline her
unruly daughter. T he judge agreed the case was flawed as state law allows parents to physically
discipline their children within limits.

Prosecutors then dropped the case and Pierce walked out of the courthouse.

Nobody checked Pierce for outstanding arrest warrants during either court visit because the
sheriff’s warrant division simply doesn’t have the manpower, Duignan said.

T he warrant division containing a sergeant, two deputies and a civilian administrative position,
typically aim to check all defendants for any warrants from their own office. T hose warrants would
be for domestic relations or bench warrants, which are warrants for defendants who skip court
hearings.

On an ideal day, the warrant division would complete their own checks and also check state and
national databases, which would reveal outstanding criminal warrants.

But that doesn’t always happen, Duignan said, because the warrant division also is responsible for
receiving and entering dozens of new bench warrants each day as well as assisting deputies in the
field.

“T hey’re building new warrants as fast or faster as the old ones being served,” Duignan said.

T he county last year processed more than 7,000 criminal dockets and that doesn’t account for
continuances and the fact that defendants typically make multiple appearances for each docket.

With 60 percent of cases being continued, that could mean tens of thousands of warrant checks
each year in addition to the warrant division’s other duties.

District Attorney Fran Chardo said the sheriff’s office has done a great job with the resources they
have, but he agreed a better system must be put in place.

T he case involving Pierce likely isn’t the only time a defendant with an outstanding arrest warrant
has been missed, Duignan said. Many times, it’s not known when it happens because no one is
researching and comparing dates.

In light of the deadly raid, however, much attention has been focused on Pierce’s criminal
background and the reasons behind the raid of her home.

U.S. Attorney David Freed hinted during a news conference eight hours after the deadly raid that
there might be a larger story behind why an elite regional task force was at Pierce’s home. But he
declined to elaborate.

Harrisburg Police Chief Thomas Carter would not say if he requested the marshal’s assistance in
arresting Pierce because of the ongoing investigation.

“I’m not going to answer that,” he said. “T here are many, many parts of this puzzle.”

Freed said he would provide updated information about the ongoing investigation of the deadly
encounter as soon as he was able.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
How routine arrest turned deadly for US Marshal - York Daily Record
(PA) - January 21, 2018 - page A6
January 21, 2018 | York Daily Record (PA) | Mike Argento | Page A6

It was a routine thing.

Nine members of the U.S. Marshal Service's Fugitive T ask Force descended on a house in
Harrisburg's South Allison Hill neighborhood. It was not unusual to have such a turnout for an
arrest. "It's what they do," said Deputy Marshal Bill Pugh. "It's pretty much all they do."

T he address on Mulberry Street, near the intersection with 18th Street, belonged to a woman
wanted by Harrisburg police on charges related to a road rage incident. T he woman, 30-year-old
Shayla Lynette T owles Pierce, had been accused of pulling a gun on another woman and
threatening to shoot her.

T he members of the task force, while planning the raid to apprehend the woman, took that into
consideration, that her charges included a threat of violence. T hat, again, is routine, marshals say.
T ask force members often consider a lot of variables - the charges against the person they are
seeking, whether they have a history of violence or record of violent offenses, the location of the
building and its size. T hey don't just drive up and kick in the door.

So, on the one hand, it was a routine arrest – the kind of thing the task force does every day – and
on the other hand, there is nothing routine about it. Every time they go out to make an arrest is
different. You never know what to expect, marshals say.

And Thursday morning would turn out to be anything but routine.

T hat task force arrived at Pierce's house at about 6:30 a.m. -- again, routine. T he task force often
makes arrests early in the morning, hoping to catch suspects still sleeping or at least off-guard.

Of the nine members of the task force involved in the arrest, two were U.S. Marshals Service
deputies, including Christopher David Hill, a 45-year-old Army veteran who served in Afghanistan
and member of the service's Special Operations Group, an elite unit, a kind of national SWAT  team.
T he remainder of the team were local and state police officers, including Kyle Pitts, a 10-year
veteran of the York City Police Department.

Hill and Pitts entered the house to arrest Pierce.

On Nov. 25, according to court records cited in reports, Pierce was double-parked in front of her
house, blocking the street, when a woman trying to pass by asked her to move her car. Pierce
pulled a gun and threatened to shoot her, according to court records. T he woman snapped a
photo of Pierce's license plate.

T he charges – for carrying a weapon without having a concealed-carry permit, a felony, and
making terroristic threats, a misdemeanor -- were filed a week later.

Court records indicate that Pierce had no previous criminal history. Her father, Kenneth T owles,
described his daughter as "all and all, a real good girl." He said she was a single mother, raising two
boys, 13 and 9, on her own. T he boys were home when the members of the task force
approached.

It's not exactly clear how the case came to fall into the hands of the fugitive task force. U.S.
Attorney David Freed hinted there could be more to it. T he fugitive task force typically goes after,
well, fugitives, suspects who have fled rather than face arrest. In this case, Pierce was arrested at
her home. And typically, the task force brings in fugitives wanted for more serious crimes than
those Pierce faced.

Hill and Pitts entered the building while the others waited outside. T hey took Pierce into custody,
apparently routinely.

T hen, it happened.

As they were arresting Pierce, gunfire erupted.

T he shots came from the top of the steps inside Pierce's home. One bullet struck Pitts' arm.
Another struck Hill in the chest.

T he suspect continued firing as members of the task force dragged their fallen colleagues to
safety and provided first aid.

Hill, a married father of two who lived in Conewago T ownship, didn't make it.

T he suspect bolted from the home, exchanging gunfire with a Harrisburg police officer. A bullet
struck the officer in the chest, stopped by his body armor. He was able to return fire, killing the
suspect.

T he suspect was identified as Kevin Sturg is
for failing to appear in court for sentencing on a firearms violation and for probation violations
related to receiving stolen property and drug charges. Sturgis also had a juvenile record for rape.

Kevin Sturg is , a 31-year-old man wanted by police in Philadelphia

It was not reported whether members of the task force knew Sturgis was there. Authorities also
said they didn't know what his relationship was with Pierce. Pierce's father didn't say what their
relationship was.

Pitts underwent surgery Thursday night and is expected to make a full recovery, authorities said.

Hill's body was escorted to a local funeral home by a caravan of police cruisers, fire trucks and
other emergency vehicles. On Friday, a state police trooper held vigil at the Hill's Conewago
T ownship home, parked out front to protect the family's privacy.

State Sen. Mike Regan, a York County Republican and former U.S. Marshal, described Hill as "a
special guy."

"Just a really neat guy, very highly-trained," Regan said T hursday. "He also had a very humorous
side, fun-loving. It really seemed the other deputies gravitated toward him."

At a press conference T hursday, Freed said, "Christopher Hill died a hero today."

Freed said more information would come out as the investigation continues. It was not routine, he
said, for the task force to make an arrest like Pierce's, that "it's not just every warrant out there
that the locals call up the marshals and say let's go grab this person."

He continued, "Although we don't know at this point, we will know what the larger purpose was for
them being there."

Copyrig ht © 2018 The York Daily Record.

 
Marshals task force rebuilds Marshals A year - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - January 22, 2019 - page 001
January 22, 2019 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Christine Vendel cvendel@pennlive.com | Page 001

When a U.S. marshals task force served a warrant for Shayla Pierce at her Harrisburg home last
year, they were at a disadvantage.

T he marshals didn’t know her boyfriend Kevin Sturg is
for shooting a pregnant woman in Philadelphia.

Kevin Sturg is  was hiding upstairs, or that he was wanted

T hey didn’t know he’d apparently shot and wounded two men in Harrisburg. Or that the couple had
more than 1.5 pounds of marijuana and two ounces of PCP stashed in the house in the 1800 block
of Mulberry Street.

Members of the task force only knew that Pierce had an outstanding warrant for pointing a gun at
her neighbor and that a fugitive named “King” from Philly might be staying with her.

With that limited information, the task force members knocked on Pierce’s door in the early hours
of Jan. 18, 2018, according to officials who provided new details to PennLive on the one-year
anniversary of that fateful raid.

“T hey proceeded to the residence to apprehend her and to decipher whether or not someone by
the nickname of King frequented her place,” said U.S. Marshal Martin Pane.

After police handcuffed Pierce in her living room, they tried to call her children downstairs and
asked her if she knew someone named “King.” T hat’s when a man at the top of the stairs shouted,
“Are you

looking for me?” and started a gunfight that left him and deputy U.S. marshal Christopher Hill dead
and two officers wounded.

T he new details answer some lingering questions about who was the target of the raid. T he
questions arose because of Sturgis’ lengthy criminal record and fugitive status compared to
Pierce’s criminal record and the fact that she had appeared in court twice in the weeks prior to the
raid.

In the end, both Sturgis (whose nickname is King) and Pierce were targets of the raid, but Pierce
was the initial target since officers did not even know Sturgis’ real name at the time.

Pierce pleaded guilty to the gun charge from her warrant last August and was released for time
served, but with eight new drug charges hanging over hear head. Her next court date is in March.
She likely will face no charges related to the death of deputy Hill.

A time of healing

Hill’s death represented the first line-of-duty death for the Middle District of Pennsylvania’s
marshals service in its 118-year history. It took time for task force members to recover from not
only losing their friend, but witnessing it.

“Deputy Hill was an outstanding employee who participated in many agency initiatives throughout
the country and abroad,” Pane said. “T o that end, he was known and highly respected by many
within this agency. So the impact and the loss of Chris has been felt by many.”

T he agency provided counseling and other resources to employees after the incident and again
Friday, on the one-year anniversary.

T wo of the full-time deputies on the task force retired last year after the raid. Between grieving,
healing and training new members, the productivity of the task force fell below its normal level.

T he middle district task force typically serves about 450 warrants per year. But that figure dropped
to 350 last year, Pane said.

“Anytime you have a line of duty death,” Pane said, “it takes time to heal and process the event.”

Harrisburg Police Commissioner Thomas Carter, however, said he didn’t notice any lull in activity.
He said the task force responded every time he called last year.

“T he incident left a permanent scar on that unit,” Carter said. “But they’re trained to overcome
extreme difficulties, so the unit will continue to provide the citizens of Dauphin County and the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania the great service they always have.”

Pane said the unit is back up to full speed for this fiscal year and expected to serve about 450
warrants.

T hose warrants reflect just a portion of the warrants out there that need to be served, Pane
noted.

“Unfortunately throughout every district in the nation, there is a consistent violent felony backlog,
and I can assure you there is far in excess of 450,” he said. “But if you get me more resources, I’ll
get you more arrests.”

‘T hey train all the time’

After every death involving a marshals task force member, the agency does a detailed review.

“An examination of the event takes place and a briefing and review occurs with senior leadership in
Washington, D.C.,” Pane said.

T he head of the agency’s training academy takes part in these reviews, Pane said, and
incorporates information into additional training, and enhanced training for entering buildings. T he

training leader also reviews equipment standards such as ballistic shields, helmets, vests and
ammunition, Pane said.

So what came out of the review of the deadly raid in Harrisburg?

If there were changes in any procedures, policies, training or equipment in the wake of Hill’s death,
Pane said he could not divulge it because it could provide a tactical advantage to fugitives.

“And we don’t want to do that,” Pane said.

But after all the detailed reviews, Pane described the death of Hill as a “tragic accident,” indicating
that little could have been done to predict or prevent the tragedy.

Carter said he was briefed on the incident and feels comfortable continuing to assign a member of
his department full-time to the task force.

“T hey train all the time,” he said. “T hey’re experts at serving warrants and going after violent
fugitives. What happened was just an unforeseen tragedy. Sometimes things just happen.”

‘T end to be desperate’

In last year’s raid, Sturgis fired the first round from upstairs that hit a York officer. T ask force
members in the living room fired back. Some of the officers’ bullets penetrated the wall behind
Sturgis and struck Hill, who was on the other side of that wall. One of the rounds hit Hill near his
armpit area, one of the small areas not covered by his bullet resistant vest.

T he fact that Sturgis came out firing is not uncommon for violent felony fugitives, Pane said.

“T he difference is they know they’re wanted,” Pane said. “T hey know they’re going away for a long
time, and perhaps facing the death penalty. T hey tend to be desperate and take overt action.”

T hat could be why the United States Marshals Service loses more federal law enforcement officers
in one year than other federal law enforcement agencies combined.

Sturgis was wanted for skipping bail and failing to appear at his Jan. 5, 2017, sentencing in
Philadelphia for a 2014 gun crime, where he was likely facing 5 to 10 years in prison. A prosecutor
was pushing for serious jail time, noting that Sturgis had been arrested 11 times and had six
convictions, not including a rape case as a juvenile.

He had been convicted in October 2016 of illegally carrying a gun in his car.

Less than one month after that conviction, while he was out on $1 bond, Philadelphia police allege
Sturgis nearly killed his pregnant girlfriend.

Responding officers found a 25-year-old woman with two gunshot wounds to her right arm and
one to her chest. She was critically wounded, but survived. Police did not release any information
about the status of the baby.

T he fugitive task force in Harrisburg, however, didn’t know about his criminal history when they
knocked on Pierce’s door. T hey only had the nickname of King, which is hardly unique in
Philadelphia.

After the deadly raid, Harrisburg police got information that “King,” was responsible for a brazen
double shooting in broad daylight October 2017 that injured two men who were in a pickup truck
behind a barber shop near 17th and Market streets. T he gun used in the double-shooting was a
.45-caliber, just like the gun Sturgis used in the deadly marshals raid.

Harrisburg officer retires

Harrisburg Officer Jeff Cook was shot in the chest during the raid last year as a member of the task
force. He had planned to retire in December 2017, but stayed on longer because there weren’t
enough officers to fill his position on the task force.

Cook agreed to stay on until the end of January.

T he shooting that could have ended his life happened that month. He was shot when Sturgis
barged out the front door after a York officer and Hill were shot inside. A bullet struck Cook in the
chest, but a bullet-resistant vest with a protective plate saved his life.

Cook said he didn’t want to retire immediately after the shooting. He wanted to see if he could still
perform the job.

Cook was cleared for duty two months later, and returned to the task force. He helped with their
assignments until June 1.

T he police department meanwhile bought more bullet-resistant plates and carriers for additional
officers to wear, to better protect them. Previously, only officers assigned to the county tactical
team or marshal’s task force had access to the expensive vests.

T he department won a $145,000 county gaming grant to purchase 10 vests, which will be donned
for high-risk assignments. A group of emergency department nurses at UPMC Pinnacle Harrisburg
also staged a 5K run that raised $20,000 to help buy even more.

Meanwhile, the York officer, Kyle Pitts, who was shot in the right arm suffered nerve damage that
required him to learn how to consistently shoot with his left hand. Pitts recently returned to duty,
according to a report in the York Daily Record.

Copyrig ht, 2019, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
Questions remain after fatal shootout - Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg,
PA) - January 25, 2018 - page A12
January 25, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Christine Vendel | Page A12

DEPUT Y U.S. MARSHAL SLAIN

Kevin Sturg is
Kevin Sturg is  first fired upon police officers from a second-floor perch inside his girlfriend’s home,
then barged out the front door, gun in hand, where he continued to fire at officers, according to
officials and neighbors.

Amid the deadly assault against the U.S. marshal’s task force at a home in Harrisburg last week,
the rest of the team stayed focused. While some officers tended to the wounded, others refused
to let the gunman get away.

Despite the danger, officers answered Sturgis’ gunfire in the middle of the street with their own
and eventually tracked him down in the dark behind a parked car where he was trying to hide.

An officer shouted, “Don’t move,” according to one neighbor, then the officer fired a series of
gunshots at Sturgis, ending the violent ordeal. Sturgis died in the street.

A deputy U.S. marshal also died and two officers were hit, one wounded.

A week after the tragedy, many new details have been revealed but just as many details remain
unknown.

How many times was the gunman shot?

An autopsy of the gunman, Kevin Sturg is

Kevin Sturg is , 31, of Philadelphia, was completed T uesday.

T he Dauphin County coroner’s office confirmed that Sturgis died from “multiple gunshot wounds
to the body,” according to a statement. T he manner of death has been ruled homicide.

T he statement did not say exactly how many times he was shot or where the wounds were on his
body.

How was Deputy Hill fatally injured when he was wearing a bullet-resistant vest?

Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher D. Hill was wearing a bullet-resistant vest, along with every
member of the team that served the arrest warrant in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street.

But the vests don’t cover all areas of an officer’s body and in Hill’s case, a bullet was able to
penetrate a gap near his armhole when gunfire rained down from the second-floor. T he bullet
penetrated his chest.

Jeff Cook, a Harrisburg officer struck by a bullet to his chest outside the home, however, survived
being shot.

“He pointed to me where the bullet struck on his body armor,” said District Attorney Fran Chardo,
“and it looked like it would have been a fatal wound if he had not had on body armor. Unfortunately
with Chris Hill, the body armor, it isn’t going to cover every area of your body, so it did not save
him.”

T he officers with the task force wear vests reinforced with steel plates to boost their effectiveness
beyond what patrol officers typically wear, because of the high-risk nature of tracking fugitives and
serving warrants.

When was the last time a deputy marshal was killed in Pennsylvania?

Hill arguably is the first trained deputy marshal killed in the history of Pennsylvania.

T here was one previous marshal killed in 1851, but he was a slave-owner from Maryland who was
deputized two days before his death to be able to track down runaway slaves that he believed
belonged to him.

T he former slaves were hiding in an abolitionist town in Lancaster County. Edward Gorsuch was
with a posse that unsuccessfully tried to retrieve them.

Gorsuch’s name is listed on the U.S. marshal’s Roll Call page as the third deputy to be killed in
marshal service history.

Across the country, more than 200 deputy marshals have been killed in the line of duty since 1794,
including one last year in New York, one in 2016 in Georgia and two in 2015.

How many fugitive task force members served the warrant in Harrisburg?

At a news conference eight hours after the shootout on Mulberry Street, officials said they
believed there were seven task force members serving the warrant against Shayla T owles Pierce.

But since then, officials have corrected the record to note that nine task force members were part
of the warrant service.

T he confusion arose because seven members of the task force came from local and state
agencies, and were temporarily assigned to the task force. Meanwhile two members, including Hill,
worked directly for the marshal’s service.

Who’s on the U.S. Marshal’s task force?

Various state and local agencies have the choice to donate the time of officers to a U.S. Marshal’s
task force.

T he arrangement is mutually beneficial, according to officials. T he marshal’s service, which
employs 4,000 federal officers across the country, benefits from the boost in manpower. T he local
agencies, meanwhile, get valuable experience, and access to marshal service assets and authority.

Some agencies, like Harrisburg, donate an officer full-time to the task force, while other agencies
might only donate their officer for a certain number of hours per week.

T he Harrisburg officer assigned to the task force, Jeff Cook, is in his sixth year working for the
marshal’s service during three different stints.

Other agencies that participate in the task force include: York, Lancaster, Lower Paxton,
Pennsylvania State Police, the Dauphin County sheriff’s office, and county and state parole offices.

T he Middle District’s marshal’s task force travels all across the region serving high-risk warrants
for fugitives. It’s one of many marshal task forces across the state and country.

Why was the fugitive task force in Harrisburg?

Warrants typically tackled by the task force involve felonies, with those involving violence and
children getting the highest priority, according to Deputy Marshal Bill Pugh, an agency spokesman.

But Pugh acknowledged that some cities have lots of felony warrants for violent crimes and the
marshal’s service isn’t called out for most of them. Instead, the task force specializes in suspects
who “have fled the jurisdictional boundary,” Pugh said.

T hat’s typically when local agencies reach out to the marshal’s service for help, Pugh said.

If someone suspected of a violent crime in Harrisburg was believed to be hiding in Philadelphia,
Pugh said as an example, it makes sense to call in the marshals since they have arrest powers
across city and state borders.

While the warrant in Harrisburg was ostensibly for Pierce for a gun violation and two
misdemeanors, her boyfriend who frequently visited from Philadelphia appeared to be a more likely
target of a marshal’s operation.

Pugh declined to comment about that when asked, but noted that the full story behind the raid
would eventually come out at the conclusion of the investigation.

Did the wounded officers return fire inside the house?

When PennLive toured the home where the shooting occurred, a repairman was patching holes in
the wall and the home was in disarray after officers thoroughly searched the property.

When officials gave a general rundown of the fatal shooting, they did not indicate whether Hill or
York Officer Kyle Pitts returned fire inside when Kevin Sturg is

Kevin Sturg is  first opened fire at them.

Instead, U.S. Attorney David Freed said the officers were hit and then “members of task force

removed the wounded officers from the residence and established a perimeter around the
residence.”

T he suspect continued firing as members of the task force dragged their fallen comrades out of
the house, according to reports.

PennLive was allowed into the home after police finished collecting evidence the next day and the
only visible bullet holes were concentrated in the stairwell.

Several bullets penetrated through the back of the stairwell, into a dining room, while some holes in
the stairwell punctured the wall at the bottom of the stairs.

A statement from Harrisburg police Monday night said Hill was injured “during the exchange of
gunfire,” but the exact sequence of events was still unknown as investigators were just starting to
interview officers.

Officers are typically allowed several days after a police shooting before providing a full statement.

How old were the children inside the home?

Pierce has two sons, ages 13 and 9, and both were inside when the task force arrived shortly after
6 a.m.

Officials said Pierce and her children appeared at the top of the stairs and that Pierce was then
taken into custody. Pierce and the children then presumably came downstairs, where Pierce was
placed into handcuffs, because officials said the officers then were suddenly surprised by the sound
of gunfire “that appeared emanate from the second floor.”

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo noted the recklessness of Sturgis opening fire with
children in the home.

“He was firing indiscriminately,” Chardo said. “He’s firing at people he knows are law enforcement
officers and firing with children close to the line of fire.”

After the ambulances ferried away the wounded officers, a neighbor saw an officer carry Pierce
out the back door. T hen neighbor also saw Pierce’s teenage son walk out the back door into the
snow without shoes. His younger brother also was escorted out the back.

T hey boys are now staying with a grandparent, according to neighbors.

How many officers fired shots?

Multiple officers fired at Sturgis after he opened fire at them, Chardo said, but no one has publicly
confirmed the number of officers or who may have fired the fatal shots against Sturgis.

T hat officer, according to some neighbors, bravely marched down the darkened sidewalk amid the
chaos using a flashlight to find Sturgis hiding behind a parked car.

“A limited number of officers fired,” Chardo said, noting that the fatal shots are something that
could be determined through testing.”

Harrisburg Mayor Eric Papenfuse previously said his city’s officer was among those who fired at
the gunman after being shot in the vest.

T he officers’ exact positions during the warrant aren’t publicly known, but neighbors reported
seeing three officers in front of the house. One officer was on each side of the front of the house
and a third was standing in the middle of the street.

Hill and York Officer Kyle Pitts were inside the house and the exact location of the other four
officers are unknown. But it’s likely at least two were positioned behind the house.

How did neighbors react during the shooting?

Some neighbors were asleep and rousted by the sound of gunfire, while other neighbors were
newly awake, preparing coffee when the first shots rang out about 6:10 a.m.

Diane Stinson said she heard three gunshots from inside the home, then she ran onto her front
porch to see what was going on, without being terribly concerned for her own safety.

She said she saw the gunman run out the front of the house and down the street. It was dark
outside so she couldn’t make out exactly what was happening. She saw an officer crouched across
the street, saying into his microphone, “Officer down. Officer down.” T hat officer then darted back
to her side of the street and eventually fired over a parked PT  Cruiser to a location where Stinson
later determined the gunman was apparently hiding.

Another neighbor closer to the street shootout said the gunman came out the front door, pointed
a gun at an officer in the street and dove off the front porch.

T he gunman rolled in between parked cars and occasionally popped up to fire at officers.

T he gunman then ran down the street as officers fired at him.

Another neighbor looked out her back window to see officers furiously trying to save Hill’s life on
the back porch. Another wounded officer was in the backyard. She grabbed her grandchildren and
hid in her basement after she heard a volley of gunshots. She didn’t want to risk anyone getting hit
with errant gunfire.

When police asked her to evacuate her home later, she said the street was littered with shell
casings, making it hard to get to her parked car without stepping on them.

What do we know about the gunman?

Sturgis lived in Philadelphia but he traveled frequently to Harrisburg in recent years. He had a 2013
arrest for drug charges in Harrisburg and neighbors said he had spent much of the past five

months on their block, staying with Pierce.

Sturgis was kind to many neighbors on Mulberry Street, even bringing a candle and card to one
neighbor on her birthday along with Pierce. T he couple serenaded her with the birthday song.

T he gunman who killed the officer “wasn’t the man we knew,” the neighbor said, declining to
provide her name.

She said Sturgis’ behavior on the block gave them no indication of his criminal record or potential
for violence. Instead, Sturgis made a good impression on them, and Pierce’s landlord, who had also
met him.

Sturgis had bounced in and out of jail for some of his early offenses but was facing a longer prison
sentence for his most recent conviction for illegal possession of a handgun.

He had been dodging authorities on that conviction for a full year.

In the gun case, which dated to April 8, 2014, city police officers stopped a car for a stop sign
violation. Officers said they saw the driver, later identified as Sturgis, moving something with his
right hand.

T hey recovered a .40-caliber semi-automatic handgun from the car’s center console.

According to a prosecutor’s memo about the case: Philly prosecutors wanted Common Pleas
Judge Giovanni Campbell to sentence Sturgis to five to 10 years in the state prison system.

And that was before the task force would have potentially arrested him with a gun again in
Harrisburg last week.

“T he mere act of him picking up the gun was in and of itself a felony,” Chardo said. “Even his
juvenile adjudication for rape made him ineligible to even carry or touch a firearm ... so this is a
person who should have never ever had a gun.”

How are the wounded officers recovering?

York City Police Officer Kyle Pitts has been released from Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical
Center, according to a CBS21 report. Pitt was shot in the elbow and underwent two surgeries. He
is facing additional rehabilitation and procedures after the shooting.

A GoFundMe campaign sought to raise $5,000 for Pitts and has raised more than $9,000 as of
Wednesday. T he fundraiser was started so Pitts and his family don’t have to worry while he
recovers. His wife, T iffany, is a detective with York police. T he extra money raised will be donated
to Hill’s family.

Harrisburg Officer Jeff Cook was examined at a hospital after he was struck on his bullet-resistant
vest, but did not need to be admitted. He remains on paid administrative leave, which is the
standard procedure for officers involved in police shootings.

Cook will be able to return to work once the district attorney rules on the whether the shooting of
Sturgis was justified. Chardo noted, however, that “on its face it appears to be a justified use of
force.” Cook also would need to undergo medical and psychological evaluations before returning
to work, which is standard procedure.

Will the woman at the center of the arrest warrant face new charges?

It seems unlikely that Pierce, 30, would be charged in connection with the murder of Hill, Chardo
told WIT F’s Scott LaMar. But she could face additional charges for other crimes, he said.

Pierce already was in handcuffs before Sturgis started shooting at police, he said.

“She certainly wouldn’t be an accomplice to the murder,” he told LaMar on Smart T alk. “You would
have to have, in order to be an accomplice to murder, you’d have to have the shared intent.

“Whether or not she’s guilty of other crimes, that’s an ongoing investigation,” Chardo said, “And it
is ongoing and we’re working diligently toward that.”

T he FBI is taking the lead on the criminal investigation while Chardo’s office is focusing on the
details of the police shooting.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
Shootout kills marshal, suspect - Two police - Morning Call, The
(Allentown, PA) - January 19, 2018 - page 1A
January 19, 2018 | Morning Call, The (Allentown, PA) | Steve Esack | Page 1A

A gun threat over a double-parked car three months ago.

T hat, authorities said, sparked a shootout Thursday morning in Harrisburg that left a deputy U.S.
marshal dead, a police officer wounded and another hit but unharmed because of his armored
vest.

Deputy Marshal Christopher David Hill, 45, a married father of two, was shot and killed when he
and other members of the marshals' Fugitive T ask Force served an arrest warrant at a home in a
city neighborhood, authorities said. Court records say the woman wanted on the warrant pointed a
gun at another woman during a parking spat in November.

Authorities said a man shot at officers when they came to arrest the woman at 6:30 a.m., and they
returned fire, killing the man.

"Christopher Hill died a hero today," U.S. Attorney Dave Freed said during a news conference at the
federal building in Harrisburg about eight hours after the fatal encounter. "We will honor his
memory by standing with his family and his brothers and sisters in law enforcement."

York police officer Kyle Pitts, a 10-year veteran of the city police department and a member of the
task force, was wounded in the shooting in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street, Freed said. A
Harrisburg officer was shot in his body armor and was not injured, he added.

Authorities later identified the shooter as Kevin Sturg is
outstanding warrants for skipping a sentencing hearing on a gun charge and failing to appear at a
probation violation hearing concerning a past charge of receiving stolen property and unauthorized
use of a car. Sturgis had nine closed adult criminal cases dating to 2005 and juvenile adjudication
for rape.

Kevin Sturg is , 31, of Philadelphia. He had his own

T he woman who was the subject of the warrant was identified as Shayla Lynette T owles Pierce, 30.
She was sent to Dauphin County jail under $200,000 bail on charges of making terroristic threats,
simple assault and carrying a firearm without a license.

According to Freed, this is how investigators, so far, believe the shooting unfolded:

T ask force officers, armed with the arrest warrant, arrived at the house on Mulberry Street in the
Allison Hill neighborhood, 1.5 miles from the state Capitol complex. T hey knocked, identified
themselves and entered through the front door. Pierce and two children then appeared at the top
of the steps. She surrendered and was handcuffed.

T hen shots rang out from the second floor, hitting Hill and Pitts. T he other officers got the
wounded out the back door and set up a perimeter while Hill was rushed to a downtown hospital,
where he later died.

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo said during the news conference that an early review
indicates the shooting was justifiable self-defense. T he shooter started firing first, he said.

Pitts, the York officer, was undergoing surgery and expected to make a full recovery.

Dauphin County Court records show Harrisburg police filed a criminal complaint Dec. 2 for Pierce.

According to that criminal complaint:

On Nov. 25, Harrisburg police officer Rachel James responded to a call at 1837 Mulberry St. A
woman told James she asked another woman - later identified as Pierce - to move her double-
parked car out of the street. Rather than comply, Pierce pulled a gun from her purse, pointed it at
the woman's head and said, "I'll shoot you," before lowering the gun and then raising it again in a
menacing fashion.

T he woman took a picture of the double-parked car's license plate and police tracked the car's
owner to the location of the call, 1837 Mulberry St., but police could not track the owner down. T he
woman picked Pierce's photo out of a lineup, allowing James to file the warrant.

T he task force is composed of federal marshals, local and state police and county sheriffs. It
serves federal court warrants and helps track down fugitives.

U.S. Marshal Martin Pane, who heads the services' central Pennsylvania office, said Hill was one of
the best at his job, using knowledge and skills learned as an Army Ranger to perform tactical
maneuvers and handle explosives, all while never losing his sense of humor.

"I ask that you keep his wife and two children in your thoughts and prayers in this difficult time,"
Pane said while fighting back emotions.

"No words can adequately express the sadness we feel at this moment as we contemplate the
loss of yet another law enforcement officer in the line of duty," Harrisburg Mayor Eric Papenfuse
said.

T he shooting occurred a block away from where police shot and killed a man last month after he
drove around the city shooting at police cars.

A third shooting occurred in the same area in the last four months, said Ron Segrist, 53, who lives
on Mulberry Street.

"A nice old guy was shot in the leg," he said. "It's just bizarre. So much hate on one block."

steve.esack@mcall.com

T witter @sesack

717-783-7309

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, The Morning  Call, Inc.

 
Slain Deputy marshal CALLED ‘cream of crop - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - January 19, 2018 - page M1
January 19, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Christine Vendel | Page M1

HARRISBURG

Christopher Hill served in Afghanistan, worked in Washington, D.C., and rose to the top of the U.S.
Marshal’s Service, according to the leader of the agency.

But Hill, 45, was felled by a gunman’s bullets Thursday as he helped to serve an arrest warrant in
the city of Harrisburg.

He is survived by a wife and two young children.

Hill had been working out of the Harrisburg office since 2009 after a stint in Washington, D.C. T he
following year, he was assigned to the prestigious “special operations group,” with a focus on
fugitive apprehension, according to U.S. Marshal Martin Pane. T he group members represent the
top one percent of deputy marshals, he said.

T he group is highly trained, and its members would have been prepared for any assignment or
situation, Pane said.

“You don’t get into that unit unless you have special skill sets,” Pane said at a news conference
T hursday, eight hours after Hill was mortally wounded. “T actically...you probably would not find a
better tactical operator in the state of Pennsylvania.”

Pane called Hill: “the cream of the crop.”

Hill was inside a house in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street about 6:10 a.m. Thursday with two
other officers and they had arrested a woman on an outstanding arrest warrant. T he woman,
Shayla Lynette T owles Pierce, was in handcuffs.

T hat’s when bullets suddenly rained down from the second-floor, from the top of the stairs, hitting
Hill and another member of the task force, Kyle Pitts, officials said.

Pitts is also an officer of the York City Police Department. Pitts was shot in the right elbow. He
underwent surgery on T hursday, and is expected to survive.

Additional officers opened the back door and pulled out their wounded comrades.

T he gunman, identified by police as Kevin Sturg is
fired at officers as he barged out the front door, according to officials. A Harrisburg officer struck
by a projectile that hit his bullet-resistant vest fired back at Sturgis, killing him.

Kevin Sturg is , 31, of Philadelphia, then ran downstairs and

Pierce, 30, was wanted by the Harrisburg Bureau of Police on charges of illegal possession of a
firearm, a third degree felony, simple assault and terroristic threats.

U.S. Attorney David Freed said the gunman, Sturgis, was wanted on one warrant for failure to
appear for sentencing on a charge of persons not to possess firearms, a second-degree felony.

He also was wanted on a second warrant for failure to appear for a violation of probation hearing
on original charges of receiving stolen property, unlawful possession of a controlled substance and
unauthorized use of a motor vehicle.

Sturgis also had a juvenile adjudication (analogous to a criminal conviction in adult court) on a
charge of rape, according to the U.S. attorney’s office.

T he nature of Sturgis’ relationship with Pierce was unknown T hursday. She was committed to
Dauphin County Prison in lieu of $200,000 bail.

As part of Hill’s career, Hill commanded a group of marshals involved in the drawn-out manhunt
through dense forests for Eric Frein in 2014 after Frein killed a state trooper and wounded a
second trooper in an ambush.

Hill also was a firearms instructor and trained in explosives used to help distract suspects as
officers enter buildings, which is known as “breaching.”

Pane said Hill won the U.S. Marshals Service Distinguished Group award for “significant
contributions” in an effort to establish a judicial system in Afghanistan.

“T his is a man who served his country over there with the U.S. Marshals Service, helping to stand
up justice,” Pane said. “But this morning, Deputy Hill made the ultimate sacrifice.”

Hill previously served in the Army from 1993 to 1996, including an overseas assignment to
Afghanistan.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
Law Enforcement Memorial Day pays tribute to 4 - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - May 7, 2019 - page 010
May 7, 2019 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Charles Thompson cthompson@pennlive.com | Page 010

State leaders and family members honored the service Monday of a deputy U.S. marshal killed
during a shoot-out that followed a police raid in Harrisburg last January.

Deputy Marshal Christopher Hill and two other Pennsylvania law enforcement officers who died
while on duty were remembered during the Pennsylvania Fraternal Order of Police’s 26th Annual
Law Enforcement Memorial Day Service at T he Forum.

Other officers honored during Monday’s ceremony were:

York City Officer Alex Sable, 38, a SWAT  team member who suffered a fatal heart attack during a
water rescue training exercise in Dundalk, Maryland last May 6.

New Castle Detective Sgt. Brian Cuscino, 44, who suffered a fatal heart attack last April 19 while in
training for a special response team there.

Philadelphia Police Officer Raymond Diaz Jr., who died Sept. 9, 2016, as a result of complications
from injuries sustained when his patrol car was struck by another vehicle while Diaz was responding
to a burglary. Diaz was 47.

Survivors of the fallen officers received a “medal of ultimate sacrifice” from Gov. T om Wolf, and
were invited to place flowers representing their slain family member on the FOP’s memorial
wreath.

In his remarks, Wolf said the service is a good time to pay tribute to all police officers serving in
Pennsylvania.

“T o serve the public is to face a fear of the unknown each day. You don’t know what will happen
when you knock on the door with a warrant, or pull over an errant driver during a traffic stop, or
respond to a domestic violence call,” the governor said.

“It takes a unique bravery to run toward danger, and I thank you from the bottom of my heart for
having the bravery to do this job. And, for your strength to carry on when your brothers and sisters
fall into harm’s way.”

Les Neri, president of the State Lodge of the Fraternal Order of Police, said the memorial
ceremony is an important show of support for police officers and those who love them.

“We take pride in honoring the lives of these courageous men who were dedicated to making our
citizens safe,” Neri said. “T he individuals we’re honoring today as heroes, their families are going to

miss them as husbands, fathers, sons, brothers, nephews, and that stays with them every day.”

Hill, 45 years old and a York resident, was killed during a multi-agency raid to arrest Shayla L.
T owles Pierce at a home in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street.

Kevin Sturg is , surprised officers who were
He was hit by friendly fire after Pierce’s boyfriend, Kevin Sturg is
taking Pierce into custody by opening fire from the second floor of the home. Members of the
task force returned fire, and bullets penetrated an interior wall, striking Hill, who was clearing a back
room.

Hill was wearing a bullet-proof vest, but the bullet hit a gap near his armhole and penetrated his
chest.

A married, father of two, Hill was a U.S. Army veteran and had served with the U.S. Marshal’s
Service for 11 years.

Copyrig ht, 2019, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 
UPDATE ON HARRISBURG SHOOTING - US Fed News (USA) - January 19,
2018
January 19, 2018 | US Fed News (USA)

HARRISBURG, Pa., Jan. 19 -- T he U.S. Department of Justice's U.S. Attorney's office for Middle
District of Pennsylvania issued the following press release:

United States Attorney David J. Freed and Dauphin County District Attorney Francis T . Chardo
provide the following update after this afternoon's press conference on the Harrisburg shooting.

Investigators have determined the identity of the subject who shot multiple members of the United
States Marshal's Fugitive T ask Force this morning in Harrisburg City as Kevin Sturg is
Philadelphia, who was killed by law enforcement officers at the scene. At the time of the incident,
Sturgis had two active warrants from the city of Philadelphia - one for failure to appear for
sentencing on a charge of Persons Not to Possess Firearms under the Uniform Firearms Act - a
felony of the second degree; and one for failure to appear for a violation of probation hearing on
original charges of Receiving Stolen Property, Unlawful Possession of a Controlled Substance and
Unauthorized Use of an Automobile. Sturgis also had a juvenile adjudication (analogous to a
criminal conviction in adult court) on a charge of Rape.

Kevin Sturg is , 31, of

T he subject of warrant for arrest was Shayla Lynette T owles Pierce, age 30, of Harrisburg, who
was wanted by the Harrisburg Bureau of Police on charges of Illegal Possession of a Firearm
under the Uniform Firearms Act, a felony of the third degree, Simple Assault and T erroristic
T hreats. T owles was committed to Dauphin County Prison in lieu of $200,000 bail.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
content.services@htlive.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 US Fed News, via HT Dig ital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved.

 

Police: 14 officers involved in deadly shootout - Associated Press State
Wire: New York (NY) - October 12, 2018
October 12, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New York (NY)

ROCHEST ER, N.Y. (AP) — Authorities say 14 police officers were involved in a deadly shootout with
a Rochester man suspected of killing his ex-girlfriend and wounding his son and another man.

T he Rochester Police Department says 13 of its officers and a Monroe County sheriff's deputy
fired their weapons at 39-year-old Terrell B lake
chaotic vehicle chase across the city Wednesday morning.

T errell B lake after he crashed a rental van at the end of a

T errell was pronounced dead at the scene.

Police say earlier that morning he fatally shot his 28-year-old ex-girlfriend and wounded her 25-
year-old boyfriend. Officials say he then went to another part of Rochester and wounded his 20-
year-old son.

Authorities say Blake shot at police officers during the chase. None were injured.

Police say they're trying to determine how many shots were fired by officers and Blake.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
Police have identified the victims in a pair of shootings Wednesday that police say were targeted killings. The

alleged gunman, Terrell Blake, was killed in an exchange of gunfire with police. 

Antane Lopez, 28, was deceased when officers arrived at the location on Post Avenue. She suffered multiple

gunshot wounds to the upper body. 

Willie Jakes, 25, of Rochester was located at the scene with gunshot wounds to the upper body. He was

transported to Strong Memorial Hospital, where he was listed in satisfactory condition. 

Police say the gunman then traveled to a location on Frances Street where he shot his son. 

Terrell Blake Jr., 20, suffered gunshot wounds to the lower body that are not considered to be life-threatening. He

was able to identify the shooter as his father. The younger Blake also was taken to Strong, where he remained

The alleged gunman was killed in a shootout with police as he arrived at a home belonging to other family

SLAHMAN@Gannett.com 

Police collect evidence at the scene of the Post Avenue shooting. 

Tina MacIntyre-Yee/Rochester Democrat and Chronicle 

Thursday. 

members. 

CREDIT: Sean Lahman 
 
 


Ex-girlfriend among 3 victims of man's shooting - Associated Press State
Wire: New York (NY) - October 11, 2018
October 11, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New York (NY)

ROCHEST ER, N.Y. (AP) — More details emerged Thursday about the ex-convict who died during a
police shootout following a chaotic vehicle chase that started while investigators were looking into
two shootings connected to the suspect.

T errell B lake, a 39-year-old Rochester man who is suspected of fatally

Police on Thursday confirmed the identities of the victims from Wednesday's mayhem that left
two people dead including Terrell B lake
shooting his ex-girlfriend and wounding her boyfriend. Blake died Wednesday after crashing a
rental van into a relative's property in Rochester and refusing pursuing officers' orders to drop his
gun, police said. It wasn't clear yet if Blake was shot by police or if he died of a self-inflicted
gunshot wound.

Authorities identified Antane Lopez, 28, and her 25-year-old boyfriend, Willie Jakes, as two of the
other victims. Jakes is listed in satisfactory condition. T he third victim, 20-year-old Terrell B lake
is Blake's son and is currently being treated for non-life-threatening injuries, police said.

T errell B lake Jr.,

T he elder Blake shot Lopez and Jakes at a home on Rochester's west side around 9:40 a.m.
Wednesday, police said. T he younger Blake was shot on an east-side street about an hour later
and collapsed in a school yard. Officials said he identified his father as the shooter.

Officers spotted the U-Haul van Blake Sr. was driving about an hour after the second shooting. He
led officers on a chase back to the east side neighborhood.

"He circled back to that area intending to do more harm to family members," Rochester Police
Chief Mark Simmons said.

Some of the chase and exchange of gunfire was captured on video by journalists who were still in
the area where Blake Jr. was shot. A Democrat and Chronicle photographer videotaped the van
being hit by police gunfire as it sped past just feet away with Rochester police, sheriff's deputies
and state police vehicles in pursuit.

During the chase, Blake Sr. fired a handgun at two officers standing outside their patrol cars.
Neither was hit and both returned fire, hitting the van as it sped past, police said.

Blake Sr. continued driving down a residential street with numerous police vehicles in pursuit. Police
said he turned down a side street and crashed into a fenced yard at a relative's house, where he
refused officers' orders to drop his weapon, prompting multiple officers to open fire. He was
pronounced dead at the scene, official said.

"We're working to determine who fired, where they were, and why they fired," said Monroe County

Chief Deputy Michael Fowler said. "T his is going to be a long and complex investigation."

Blake Sr. had a criminal history that included using a sword to slice off his 18-year-old girlfriend's
head during an argument in 1998, according to the Democrat and Chronicle. He had two
subsequent forgery-related convictions by 2010, when he was sentenced to up to six years in state
prison. He was paroled in 2016, according to state corrections officials.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
"We're working to determine who fired, where they were, and why they fired. This is going to be a long and complex

investigation." 

Monroe County Sheriff's Chief 

Deputy Michael Fowler 

Police say a gunman was "on a mission" to target family members Wednesday when he shot three people before

leading police on a high-speed pursuit that ended with a fatal shootout. 

The sprawling incident prompted the Rochester City School District to put all of its schools on lockout. 

Police identified the shooter as 39-year-old Terrell Blake at a news briefing Wednesday evening. 

"Today is the kind of day that breaks your heart," said Rochester Mayor Lovely Warren. "Our officers literally put

themselves in the line of fire today to protect their community." 

Monroe County Sheriff Todd Baxter praised the work of the deputies who didn't flinch when they came under fire. 

"As the rampage unfolded, you saw officers respond to what they were trained to do," Baxter said. "We appreciate

that bravery, which prevented more carnage in the city of Rochester." 

Police say the violence began when Blake shot two people at a Post Avenue home around 9:40 a.m, killing a 28-

year-old woman and critically injuring a 25-year-old man. 

Rochester Police Chief Mark Simmons said that Blake was the woman's former romantic partner, and the other

victim was her current partner. Blake and the woman have a child together. 

Blake then drove to the city's east side, according to police, and shot a man in his 20s on Frances Street around

10:20 a.m. That victim, who suffered non-life-threatening injuries, was Blake's son. He was able to identify his

father as the shooter, police said. 

into a lockout. 

The son ran onto the nearby grounds of School 25, where he collapsed. The incident prompted the school to go

Witnesses from both scenes described a similar vehicle, a white U-Haul van from Lake Avenue Moving and Storage

with Arizona license plates. Law enforcement patrols spotted the van around 11:15 a.m. near Emerson Street and

followed the suspect as he zigzagged back toward the east side. 

Multiple law enforcement agencies were involved in the chase. 

Monroe County Sheriff's Chief Deputy Michael Fowler said that Blake fired at a deputy on foot as he traveled south

on North Goodman Street and turned onto Forester Street, just north of Bay Street. 

That deputy and other officers returned fire and followed the vehicle to Frances Street, where the suspect crashed

into another vehicle and ended up in a driveway. 

Simmons said that Blake did not comply with officers' commands and was fatally shot while he was still partly in

the vehicle. 

According to Simmons, other family members lived in the house where Blake ended up. 

"He circled back to that area intending to do more harm to family members at a house on Frances Street,"

Simmons said. 

The shooting took place around the corner from School 25 and the scene of the earlier shooting. Media members

assembled nearby witnessed the crossfire up close, some just yards away from the van as gunfire erupted. 

"We are aware that there are videos that show the level of danger and the exchange of gunfire that occurred," said

Fowler. "Put yourself in the shoes of those officers and deputies. A suspect is allegedly driving through the streets

of Rochester shooting at people and they need to intervene, they need to somehow bring this to an end." 

No officers were injured, though at least one patrol car was struck by gunfire. 

Authorities could not say how many shots were fired or how many officers were involved. 

"Multiple officers fired shots," Fowler said "We're working to determine who fired, where they were, and why they

fired. This is going to be a long and complex investigation." 

School 25 at Bay and Goodman remained in a lockout for most of the day because of the heavy police activity in

that area. Rochester Deputy Police Chief LaRon Singletary said that police officers were on hand to ensure a safe

Benjamin Miller, 29, arrived to pick up his son, Maurice, 6, who is a first-grader at School 25. He said he received an

automated call from the school district, informing him that the school was on lockout. 

"You don't really feel that fear until your child is in it," Miller said. "It's a scary thing. It makes you start to truly think,

even when you know they're safe, about what you can do to make them even safer. 

"You want to keep them safe physically, as well as emotionally. That's the best thing you can try to do as they grow

dismissal. 

up." 

Miller thanked the teachers and staff members who made sure the children were safe and supported. He said he

heard about the lockout from his wife before he heard from the district. 

At one point, the district made the decision to place all schools on lockout. Once police informed the district the

incident had been contained, the lockout was lifted for most of the schools. 

"Unfortunately, several students at area schools are directly impacted by this violence. We have sent counselors to

those schools to work directly with those students," the district said on Facebook. "We are also working with

colleagues from Monroe County to send appropriate support and resources to all schools in proximity to the

shootings." 

Suspect's background 

Blake was the son of Joy Powell, a prominent Rochester anti-violence activist in the late 1990s and early 2000s

who herself wound up in prison. In an interview with a Democrat and Chronicle reporter in November 2002, she

said she'd given birth to Terrell Blake in 1978, when she was 16 years old. 

In December 1998, Blake was accused of using a sword to slice hair from the head of his 18-year-old girlfriend,

Rosemary McFadden. McFadden, who later married Blake, said he attacked her during an argument. Blake, then

20, was being sought by police on charges of harassment and endangering the welfare of a child, according to a

news report at the time. 

Blake made the local news again in June 2002 when he was shot and seriously wounded as he left a convenience

store in northeast Rochester. Powell told a reporter then that her son would be paralyzed from the waist down. 

During Wednesday's manhunt, police described the suspect as a man who walked with a limp. 

Powell, who now is 56 years old, is serving a 38-years-to-life prison term in Bedford Hills Correctional Facility. 

She was convicted in 2006 of burglary and assault charges and sentenced to 16 years in prison. Three years later,

she was found guilty of second-degree murder in connection with the 1992 slaying of James Rutledge of

Rochester and was sentenced to 25 years to life in prison. 

While in prison, Powell has written about her work to help police deal more appropriately with people suffering

from mental illness. She said her interest in the subject dated to a police incident in Rochester. 

That apparently is a reference to an incident in August 2002 that began with a man reportedly acting irrationally

outside a Wegmans Food Market then located on Driving Park Avenue. The man was forcibly subdued after a

lengthy struggle with city police and then sedated at Rochester General Hospital, where he died. Powell spoke out

about officers' handling of the case at the time. 

to time served and five years of probation. 

In 2004, Blake, then 25, pleaded guilty to attempted criminal possession of a forged instrument and was sentenced

Three years later, Blake appeared in a Crimestoppers ad in the Democrat and Chronicle that stated he was wanted

for violation of probation. Court records indicate he was apprehended and given an additional sentence for that

offense. 

May 2014. 

In 2010, Blake was arrested again and convicted in October of that year of criminal possession of a forged

instrument. He was sentenced to three to six years in state prison. 

In October 2012, while Blake was in prison, his wife, Rosemary Blake, filed for divorce. The divorce was finalized in

Blake was released from Livingston Correctional Facility in Sonyea, Livingston County, in August 2016. 

The suspect's aunt, Juliet Blake-Lavan, said that Blake was a tattoo artist. 

"He was very creative and he was so smart," she said "but he struggled with mental illness." 

Blake-Levan said that she called police during the incident. 

"I begged them. I pleaded with them," she said. "I said 'My nephew has mental illness. I know he's going through a

breakdown. Please don't shoot my nephew.'" 

SLAHMAN@Gannett.com 

MEFINNERTY@Gannett.com 

GSILVAROLE@Gannett.com 

WCLEVELAND@Gannett.com 

Schuhmacher. 

USA TODAY NETWORK GRAPHIC BY BILL WAMBEKE 

investigation." 

Monroe County Sheriff's Chief 

Deputy Michael Fowler 

Includes reporting by staff writers Meaghan McDermott, Steve Orr, Gary Craig, Patti Singer and Tracy

"We're working to determine who fired, where they were, and why they fired. This is going to be a long and complex

CREDIT: Sean Lahman; Meghan Finnerty; Georgie Silvarole; Will Cleveland 
 
 

Victims, officers identified in Rochester shooting - Daily Messenger
(Canandaigua, NY) - October 12, 2018 - page A5
October 12, 2018 | Daily Messenger (Canandaigua, NY) | Daily Messenger news partner, News 10NBC | Article
| Page A5

ROCHEST ER — Rochester Police have released the names of the three victims in Wednesday’s
deadly shooting spree.

Police say 39-year-old Terrell B lake
T errell B lake shot and killed Antane Lopez, 28, at a home on Post Avenue.
She was shot multiple times in her upper body. Lopez was Blake’s ex and the mother of one of his
children.

Blake also shot 25-year-old Willie Jakes, Lopez’s boyfriend, in the home. He was taken to the
hospital with multiple gunshot wounds to his upper body. He was in satisfactory condition
T hursday.

Investigators say Blake then shot his 20-year-old son, Terrell B lake
also in satisfactory condition after being shot at least once in his lower body.

T errell B lake Jr., on Frances Street. He is

Blake Jr. was able to identify the shooter as his father. After leading police on a chase through the
city in a U-Haul, Blake died after getting into a shootout with officers.

Sixteen Rochester Police officers were involved as well as one sheriff’s deputy. None of them were
injured.

Police say this could have ended with more people being killed if not for the quick and brave action
of everyone who chased down the shooter.

On Wednesday, in the area of North Goodman Street and Forester Street, Blake began shooting
towards a Monroe County sheriff’s deputy and a Rochester police officer. Both the deputy and the
officer, who were standing outside of their vehicle, fired back at the the U-Haul that Blake was in.

T he deputy vehicle, as well as Blake’s vehicle, were struck by gunfire. Blake then continued
westbound on Forster Street and then southbound on Frances Street before crashing into a
fenced yard that belonged to his family.

After Blake refused to comply with officers’ orders, multiple officers fired shots, leaving Blake
deceased at the scene.

On T hursday, the Rochester Police Department released the names of the officers involved in the
deadly shooting spree in which Blake was said to have been on a mission to kill his family.

T he officers involved are as follows:

Sergeant Brian Phillips, 46, an 18-year veteran with the RPD.

Sergeant Dan Brochu, 53, a 15-year veteran with the RPD.

Sergeant Josh Lewis, 38, a 12-year veteran with the RPD.

Officer Tito Batson, 38, a 13-year veteran with the RPD.

Officer Ryan Hartley, 40, a 12-year veteran with the RPD.

Officer Brandon Mandurano, 38, a 12-year veteran with the RPD.

Officer Thomas Deane, 32, an 11-year veteran with the RPD.

Officer Richard Doran, 42, a 10-year veteran with the RPD.

Officer Jordan Bracey, 45, a 10-year veteran with the RPD.

Another son of Blake, Kamiu Blake, 18, who was charged in connection to the 2017 shooting of
RPD officer Jeremy Nash, pleaded guilty to one count of attempted assault in July. He was
sentenced to 12 years behind bars with five years post-release supervision. Another teen involved
in that shooting — T ykyal Glover, 17 — Thursday pleaded guilty to first-degree assault and four
counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon.

Copyrig ht 2018 Daily Messeng er. All Rights Reserved.

 

 
Police identified the officers and deputy involved in a deadly shootout in the city of Rochester on Wednesday

morning. 

In all, 13 Rochester police officers and one Monroe County sheriff's deputy were involved in the shootout that left

Terrell Blake, 39, dead after he allegedly killed his ex-girlfriend and shot two others, including his 20-year-old son. 

The following officers were involved in the shootout and have been "assigned administrative duties pending the

outcome of the respective internal investigations of this event," according to a release. 

Sgt. Brian Phillips, 46, 18 years with the Rochester Police Department; 

Sgt. Dan Brochu, 53, 15 years with RPD; 

Sgt. Josh Lewis, 38, 12 years with RPD; 

Officer Tito Batson, 38, 13 years with RPD; 

Officer Ryan Hartley, 40, 12 years with RPD; 

Officer Brandon Mandurano, 38, 12 years with RPD; 

Officer Thomas Deane, 32, 11 years with RPD; 

Officer Richard Doran, 42, 10 years with RPD; 

Officer Jordan Bracey, 45, 10 years with RPD; 

Officer Jonathan Marsh, 33, nine years with RPD; 

Officer John Woicyk, 27, two years with RPD; 

Officer William Minks, 30, one year with RPD; 

Officer Harry Scorse, 31, one year with RPD; 

Deputy Paolo Saieva, 27, 51/2 years with MCSO. 

Authorities have not released which or how many of these officers shot Blake. 

Police said that Terrell Blake shot two people at a Post Avenue home Wednesday morning, killing his former

girlfriend and seriously injuring another man. 

He then drove to a location on Frances Street where he shot his 20-year-old son. 

Blake then led police on a high-speed chase while driving a rented U-Haul van, shooting at officers as he tried to

reach the home of other family members. 

Blake was killed in a shootout with police in the driveway of that home. 

WCLEVELAND@Gannett.com 

Rochester Police race to the scene at Bay Street near Frances Street following a police chase and shootout in

SHAWN DOWD/ROCHESTER DEMOCRAT AND CHRONICLE 

Rochester Wednesday. 

CREDIT: Will Cleveland 
 
 

Police: Shooting suspect ‘clearly on a mission - Daily Messenger
(Canandaigua, NY) - October 11, 2018 - page A3
October 11, 2018 | Daily Messenger (Canandaigua, NY) | Daily Messenger news partner, News 10NBC | Article
| Page A3

ROCHEST ER — A suspect is dead after police say he shot three people, one fatally, in the city of
Rochester.

Before he was shot and killed, police said, 47-year-old Terrell B lake
he targeted family members over a domestic dispute.

T errell B lake was “clearly on a mission” as

Police say he had made earlier threats that he was going to kill his family.

At 9:41 a.m., police say Blake went to the home of his 28-year-old ex-wife on Post Avenue and
shot and killed her. Police say he also shot a 25-year-old man who was in the home. He was in
critical but stable condition Wednesday evening.

Around 10:20 a.m., a 20-year-old male was shot on Francis Street. His injuries were not critical.
T hat 20-year-old male later identified the shooter as his father.

Officers chased Blake, who was seen driving a U-Haul truck recklessly through the city. Multiple
officers fired at Blake after he began shooting, ultimately ending his life.

T he Rochester Police Department had not release the victims’ names as of Wednesday evening,
pending notification of their relatives.

Gary Holmes was saddened to hear about what happened Wednesday morning, just two doors
away from where he lives on Post Avenue, but not necessarily shocked.

He said one of the couples who lived in the house, where two people were shot Wednesday
morning, had been fighting. Holmes said it was about relationship stuff — and said things seemed
to take a turn for the worse Tuesday night.

“Last night, we heard an argument ... it must have been about five people out there,” said Holmes.
“T hen, I heard gun shots. It must have been between 11:30, 12 o’clock.”

Neighbors weren’t sure who lived in the house, but Holmes says there were problems at the old
address.

“T hey’ve been arguing, they’ve been fussing. T here has been several issues back and forth with
them through the years. When they stayed across the street, police were called there quite often,”
Holmes said

Carol, a neighbor who didn’t want to be identified, heard a man screaming for help Wednesday
morning.

“... So I called 911 and I got to the door and I saw a young man sitting in the doorway over there
saying ‘I’m bleeding. I’ve been shot.’ I called 911,” she said as she began to cry about what she
witnessed.

She too has heard the fights. It stands out, she said, on a street like Post Avenue that’s generally
quiet.

“T here are the arguments and whatnot, but nothing violent,” she said.

At least, not until now.

“T he kids are the ones that are going to suffer from this. Knowing that one of their parents or
both of their parents are no longer here,” said Holmes.

Copyrig ht 2018 Daily Messeng er. All Rights Reserved.

 

 
Terrell Blake, the man who police say was responsible for a shooting rampage in the city Wednesday, was the

father of a teen convicted last month in connection with the shooting of a Rochester police officer. 

Kamiu Blake, 18, is one of two teenagers accused of conducting a June 2017 shootout that caught Rochester

Police Officer Jeremy Nash in the crossfire. 

The younger Blake pleaded guilty in July to attempted first-degree assault and an unrelated second-degree

criminal possession of a weapon charge and was sentenced last month to 12 years and five years, respectively, in

state prison. 

crossfire. 

Tykal Glover, 17, who is charged with two counts of first-degree assault and four counts of second-degree criminal

possession of a weapon, all felonies, pleaded guilty on Thursday to one count of first-degree assault and four

counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon in connection with the shooting. 

Glover and Blake were engaged in a shootout on North Street, and Nash, while in his car, was struck in the

Nash was struck with multiple pellets from a shotgun round and sustained injuries to his head, face, neck, left eye

and left forearm. He was rushed to Rochester General Hospital. 

Blake allegedly fired a 9mm pistol multiple times at Glover, but did not hit him. 

Glover will be sentenced on Nov. 19 in state Supreme Court. He faces up to 18 years in prison. 

Police said that Terrell Blake shot two people at a Post Avenue home Wednesday morning, killing his former

girlfriend and seriously injuring another man. 

He then drove to a location on Frances Street, where he shot his 20-year-old son. Blake then led police on a high-

speed chase while driving a rented U-Haul van, shooting at officers as he tried to reach the home of other family

members. Blake was killed in a shootout with police in the driveway of that home. 

Includes reporting by staff writer Meaghan M. McDermott. 

SLAHMAN@Gannett.com 

WCLEVELAND@Gannett.com 

Terrell Blake 

Kamiu Blake 

CREDIT: Sean Lahman; Will Cleveland 
 
 

Police: Suspect who killed 1, wounded 2 slain in - Associated Press State
Wire: New York (NY) - October 10, 2018
October 10, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New York (NY)

ROCHEST ER, N.Y. (AP) — A man fatally shot a woman with whom he had a relationship and
wounded his own son and a second man Wednesday, then was killed by police in a shootout during
a vehicle chase through a Rochester neighborhood.

T errell B lake
T errell B lake, 47, was in a rented U-Haul van when he was spotted driving recklessly late
Wednesday morning, soon after separate shootings were reported in different parts of the city,
police said as investigators pieced together the events leading to the chase.

A video posted on the Democrat and Chronicle's website shows at least one officer on foot
shooting out the van's driver's-side window as it speeds down a tree-lined street. T he Monroe
County sheriff's deputy opened fire after the suspect fired at him, police said.

T he video shows the deputy pursuing the van on foot as more than a dozen police vehicles give
chase along with other officers on foot. T he video loses sight of the van after the driver makes a
sharp left turn into a driveway where the suspect fired at officers, who returned fire, police said.

Deputy Police Chief LaRon Singletary said Blake was declared dead at the scene. It wasn't clear if
Blake was shot by police or if he died of a self-inflicted gunshot.

Officials said the chase occurred after two shootings about an hour apart Wednesday on the city's
west and east sides left a woman dead and two men wounded, including the suspect's son, who is
in his 20s. T he suspect had been in a domestic relationship with the woman, Singletary said.

Singletary said local and state law enforcement agencies happened to be holding a terrorism
response training session in Rochester at the time of the shootings and were able to quickly
respond when the suspect's rental van was spotted. He said the suspect "targeted" his victims.

"He was clearly on a mission," he said.

T elevision news were still gathered near the scene of the second shooting when the suspect drove
back through the area and gunfire erupted, sending reporters and residents scrambling for cover
as police officers shouted warnings to flee.

Katheryn Grimes told the Democrat and Chronicle she was sitting on the porch of her home near
the scene of the second shooting when all of a sudden she saw multiple police cars and heard
gunfire. She said she scrambled inside her home as bullets whizzed past.

"T his s very upsetting to me," she said. "I mean, it has been a crazy day, a crazy day. T his is too
close for comfort."

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
Audiences in greater Rochester and beyond watched Wednesday morning as a U-Haul van driven by a suspect in

multiple shootings earlier in the day careened through city streets pursued by a fleet of police. 

The extraordinary scene unfolded virtually in real time on social media for countless viewers, captured by news

photographers and reporters who themselves were caught in the middle of a pursuit that ended in a burst of

gunfire on a residential street. 

Video shows police appearing to shoot the window of the vehicle as it passed a barricade on Forester Street and

descending on its driver as he weaved onto Frances Street. 

Not captured was what police later described as the van crashing into a driveway and its driver exchanging gunfire

with officers before being shot dead. No officers were hit. 

Nevertheless, it was a remarkable event for local journalists, who, despite their best efforts to deliver up-to-the-

minute coverage to viewers and readers, rarely find themselves embedded in police action as it is unfolding. 

More often than not, journalists are responding to crime scenes after the fact, after learning of them from a source

or, most likely, from a police scanner, the incessant squawking of which is the soundtrack of most newsrooms. 

Then, journalists and the public are typically cordoned off from the scene, penned into a staging area where they

await a briefing from police after the situation is contained or resolved. 

In the case of the chase, though, police were responding to a crime in progress and had not yet established

perimeters. 

Further enabling journalists to record the spectacle was the meandering driver, who kept returning to areas of the

city where he had wrought havoc, so news outlets were already on scene reporting on the aftermath. 

"There was so much fluidity to this chase that nobody knew what was going to happen," said Max Schulte, a

Democrat and Chronicle photojournalist who captured perhaps the most dramatic footage of the incident. 

Schulte was on the corner of Forester and Goodman streets, near where the chase would end, because he had

been in the area reporting on one of the driver's alleged shooting victims, who had collapsed in a playground at

nearby School 25. 

alert. 

He said he moved to the intersection because he noticed a strong police presence galvanizing there and carrying

what appeared to be heavy artillery. His intention, he said, was to take photos of police in a heightened state of

"The fact that this guy drove down the road and turned in front of me, in front of a bunch of police who unloaded

their weapons on him, was dumb luck," Schulte said. "Maybe I was dumb for being there." 

Will Morgan, a videographer for WHAM-TV (Channel 13), captured similar footage and later posted on Twitter a still

image from his video that appears to show the driver aiming a gun at him. 

"Just got back to the office and watched the video and saw this!" Morgan tweeted. "Suspect pointing gun at me!" 

Stephanie Robusto, a reporter at WHEC-TV (Channel 10), tweeted a powerful photo of what appears to be a Monroe

County sheriff's deputy yelling with his gun drawn and fixed on the van as it approached Goodman and Forester. 

"This is the uhaul police were chasing —just seconds before gunfire was exchanged," she wrote. 

The images make a convincing case for the standard police practice of keeping bystanders, including unarmed

journalists, at a distance from crime scenes —a practice that's relatively new in both fields and one that rankles

"Put yourself in the shoes of the officers and deputies," Monroe County Sheriff's Chief Deputy Michael Fowler said

later at a news conference. "The suspect is driving through the streets of Rochester shooting people and they need

The suspect, whom police identified as Terrell Blake, shot three people on his rampage, one of them fatally. Police

said his victims were targeted. 

As his U-Haul made its way south on Goodman Street and suddenly turned onto Forester Street, it was followed by

a swarm of patrol cars with flashing lights and was confronted by officers with their guns drawn. 

"I've been in situations where officers have had their guns drawn. I've seen them surround a house," Schulte said.

"But I've never, ever, ever seen anything like that in my entire life. I've never been that close to gunfire. 

"As a photojournalist, it's your job to be in the right place at the right time, to look for the best images," Schulte

added. "I'm drawn to things that show what's happening. I was drawn to those officers who were preparing for the

David Andreatta is a Democrat and Chronicle columnist. He can be reached at DANDREATTA@Gannett.com. 

Rochester Democrat and Chronicle 

In this image pulled from the video by Max Schulte, an officer runs to follow the van after shots were fired at it on

reporters. 

to intervene." 

worst." 

David Andreatta 

Columnist 

Forester Street. 

David Andreatta 

Columnist 

Max Schulte/Rochester Democrat and Chronicle 

Rochester Democrat and Chronicle 
 
 

Suspect in shooting of 3 in Rochester had criminal - Associated Press
State Wire: New York (NY) - October 11, 2018
October 11, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New York (NY)

ROCHEST ER, N.Y. (AP) — More details are emerging about the man suspected of fatally shooting
his ex-girlfriend and wounding his son and another man in Rochester before leading police on a
chaotic vehicle chase that ended with the suspect dead after exchanging gunfire with officers.

Police say 39-year-old Terrell B lake
T errell B lake died Wednesday after crashing a rental van into a driveway
and shooting at pursing officers. It wasn't clear if Blake was shot by police or if he died of a self-
inflicted gunshot.

Officials say the chase ensued after officers spotted a van reportedly linked to two separate
shootings earlier Wednesday that left 28-year-old Antane Lopez dead and 25-year-old Willie Jakes
wounded at the first location and 20-year-old Terrell B lake

T errell B lake Jr. wounded at the second location.

Blake Sr. had a criminal history that included prison time for a forgery-related conviction.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 


 
DETROIT (AP) - A vigil has been held for a man who authorities say was shot and killed by officers after fatally

shooting a police dog in suburban Detroit.  

The gathering was held Sunday outside the Detroit home of 29-year-old Theoddeus Gray. WDIV-TV reports Oliver

Gant, who was speaking for Gray's family, says they're upset that amid the focus on the dog's death it seems "as

though this young man had no worth or no value to his life."  

St. Clair Shores police responded Nov. 4 to a report of a man with a gun outside Lakeland Manor banquet hall.

Police say the man fled before shooting K-9 officer Axe .  

WXYZ-TV reports family members have questions about the law enforcement account. The Macomb County

sheriff's office isn't commenting until its investigation is completed.  

Credit: By MARILYNN MARCHIONE, AP Chief Medical Writer 
 
 


 
A man fatally shot by a Shelby Township police officer in an apartment complex parking lot on Saturday has been

identified by the Macomb County Sheriff's Office. 

It was one of two fatal weekend shootings by police in Macomb County cities. 

According to Shelby Township police, officers were investigating a stolen vehicle at the Spring Hill Apartments on

Spring Lane at 1a.m. Saturday. 

The vehicle was occupied by a man, now identified as Kanwarbir Malhi, 25, of Shelby Township. 

He "refused to comply with officers repetitive verbal commands and informed officers that he was armed," a news

release from the police department said. 

The officer then fired his weapon "to stop his aggressive action." Police said Malhi sustained "a single gunshot

wound," was treated on the scene by officers and members of the Shelby Township Fire Department, then taken to

Troy Beaumont Hospital. 

Malhi died from his injuries, and the officer who fired the shot has been placed on administrative leave. 

The ongoing investigation has been turned over to the Macomb County Sheriff's Office. 

At a news conference on Monday, Police Chief Robert Shelide clarified details of the incident. He said police were

contacted by Malhi's parents, who said their son stole their vehicle on Friday. On Saturday, he said, Malhi was

spotted by officers on patrol in the apartment complex parking lot. 

Shelide said four officers encountered Malhi, but he refused to listen to their verbal commands and told them he

"There were furtive hand gestures made along with verbal statement, and that's what led our officer into firing his

weapon," Shelide said. "Our officers (are) out there protecting our community, but they also have to protect

Shelide said the incident was a family matter that turned tragic. He added that the officer who shot Malhi has been

on Shelby Police force for 17 years, "with an exemplary record." 

"Nobody wants to do this," Shelide said. "This is the last thing that our officers want to do." 

Shelide said Malhi has had multiple previous contacts with police. Dash-cam footage of the incident was recorded,

Meanwhile, the Sheriff's Office has identified the man who was shot and killed Sunday in an exchange with St. Clair

Shores police outside a banquet hall as a 29-year-old Detroiter. 

A police dog named Axe also died in the line of duty during the incident. 

Officers were responding to calls of an armed man outside the Lakeland Manor on Harper Avenue between 10 and

11 Mile roads, where about 70 people were gathered inside, police said. 

The man, now identified as Theoddeus Gray, was standing outside armed with a rifle and handgun, ignored

demands from officers and attempted to flee on foot, police said. 

Axe, the department's K-9, was deployed and then reportedly shot by Gray with a handgun. Then, officers returned

fire and struck the suspect, who was taken to a hospital and pronounced dead. 

The Sheriff's Office has not shared further details about the incident or a possible motive. 

CREDIT: Aleanna Siacon 

was armed. 

themselves." 

he said. 

 
 


 
Click here for updates on this story 

following a shooting St. Clair Shores. 

    ST. CLAIR SHORES, Mich. (WXYZ) -- The suspect in a K-9 officer shooting and the K-9 officer involved are dead

According to police, a 911 call around 6:30 p.m. on Sunday drew police to Lakeland Manor Banquet Hall on Harper

Avenue near 10 mile â€”the initial report indicated the suspect had a gun. 

Several dozen people were inside the banquet hall celebrating a baby shower, per sources. 

Police arrived and found a suspect matching the description theyâ€™d been given over the phone. He ignored

several demands before trying to run away from police, which is when K-9 Axe confronted the suspect. 

The department declined to speak on camera, but offered an explanation and timeline of events which describes

the moment Axe chased the suspect and was shot as follows: 

â€œâ€¦Axe was deployed and upon confronting the male, shots were fired from a handgun by the male, striking the

K-9. St. Clair Shores Police Department officers returned fire, striking the male.â€ 

As a result of the shooting, both the shooting suspect and K-9 officer Axe were killed. 

The shooting suspect was identified by the Macomb County Sheriff's Office as Theoddeus Gray, 29, from Detroit. 

As for K-9 Officer Axe, he was rushed to an emergency veterinarian office where he died â€”a large crowd of police

and K-9 handlers showed up at the vetâ€™s office to show their support. After being pronounced dead he was

removed from the hospital draped with an American flag and escorted away in a procession of police cars with

Please note: This content carries a strict local market embargo. If you share the same market as the contributor of

flashing lights. 

this article, you may not use it on any platform. 
 
 

4/16/2019

St. Clair Shores, ofﬁcers sued over fatal shooting

Nexis Uni®

Menu 



Document: St. Clair Shores, ofﬁcers sued over fatal sh… Actions 

Select Language  ▼     Disclaimer

     Go to 
 

 

 

 

Theoddeus Gray 1 of 1    Search Document 
 

 

 EN  

Sign In | Register

To save documents and
searches, register with
Nexis Uni®. For details,
read this pdf

Got it!
Got it!

4 of 42

Results list



St. Clair Shores, officers sued over fatal shooting



Export Citation

The Detroit News (Michigan)

February 9, 2019 Saturday, 1 Edition

Copyright 2019 The Detroit News All Rights Reserved

Section: BUSINESS; Pg. B1

Length: 478 words

Byline: By, Mark Hicks, The Detroit News

 

 

 

 

 

 
Body

The family of a man shot by police outside a St. Clair Shores banquet hall in the fall filed a wrongful death lawsuit

against the city and five officers.

The suit alleges that authorities who arrived on the scene at the Lakeland Manor violated state law and the Fourth

Amendment when opening fire on Theoddeus Gray.

The officers were "grossly negligent, wanton, and/or willful" in breaching their duties by "discharging their firearms

multiple times when they knew or should have known that they were not in imminent or immediate harm and that

Gray did not pose a physical threat to their safety or that of other officers or civilians," according to the lawsuit, filed

Thursday in U.S. District Court in Detroit.

The filing, which seeks $10 million in damages, also claims St. Clair Shores had unconstitutional policies, practices and

customs allowing officers to use excessive or deadly force against citizens as well as failing to train them regarding the

proper use of force.

Thursday night.

An attorney representing the officers, John Goldpaugh, did not immediately respond to a request for comment

The St. Clair Shores police chief and city manager could not be reached.

Gray, 29, was attending his girlfriend's baby shower on Nov. 4 when he brandished a gun and sparked panic,

according to records obtained by The Detroit News.

He had been arrested six days earlier in a North Dakota motel by federal narcotics agents and was facing a hearing

that week on a charge of drug possession with intent to distribute. An associate to whom allegedly he owed a drug

debt was heading to the banquet facility.

After a woman called 911 to report Gray's behavior, St. Clair Shores police descended on the business.

https://advance-lexis-com.stanford.idm.oclc.org/document/?pdmﬁd=1516831&crid=fa396663-30c0-4ffb-a62c-58c56cf85482&pddocfullpath=%2Fshared%2Fdocume… 1/2

4/16/2019

St. Clair Shores, ofﬁcers sued over fatal shooting

Police reports show Gray ignored orders to drop his weapon and lie down, fleeing as a K­9 officer, Axe, pursued him.

According to the reports, Gray then turned and fired a shot, striking the canine before his FN 5.7 handgun jammed.

The five police officers fired their weapons, at least 42 rounds in all, wounding him six times in the head, arms, legs,

chest, left back and foot. At least one round is believed to also have hit Axe, who died from a wound in the left

shoulder and lungs, according to necropsy records.

The lawsuit claims police drew their weapons "within seconds of deploying Axe," striking Gray at least once in the right

foot. He then "was shot to death while unarmed by defendants ... after having surrendered."

The five officers were placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of an independent investigation by the

Macomb County Sheriff's Office, which issued a report saying police used justifiable deadly force in the incident.

The Sheriff's Office probe "did not locate any evidence to substantiate requesting criminal charges" against police. The

officers have since returned to active duty, their attorney told The Detroit News in December.

 
Graphic

Gray

 
Classification

Language: ENGLISH 

Publication­Type: Newspaper 

Journal Code: det 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subject: SHOOTINGS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); NEGATIVE PERSONAL NEWS (89%);

CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (87%); DEATHS & INJURIES BY POLICE (75%); DOGS (75%); POLICE FORCES

(75%); ARRESTS (75%); DEATH & DYING (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); DAMAGES (74%); WRONGFUL DEATH &

SURVIVAL (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%);

FIREARMS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (70%); NEGLIGENCE (69%); LAW COURTS &

TRIBUNALS (65%) 

Industry: LAWYERS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%) 

Geographic: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) 

Load­Date: February 9, 2019

About
LexisNexis®

Privacy
Policy

Cookie
Policy

Terms &
Conditions

Sign In |
Register

Copyright © 2019 LexisNexis.
All rights reserved.

https://advance-lexis-com.stanford.idm.oclc.org/document/?pdmﬁd=1516831&crid=fa396663-30c0-4ffb-a62c-58c56cf85482&pddocfullpath=%2Fshared%2Fdocume… 2/2

 

 
Authorities say officers shot and killed a man who fatally shot a police dog near a banquet hall in suburban Detroit.

St. Clair Shores police responded Sunday night to a report of a man with a rifle outside Lakeland Manor, where

there was a gathering of about 70 people. When K-9 officer Axe was sent to track a fleeing suspect, police said the

man shot the dog with a handgun. Police say officers then fired, striking the man. The man and police dog were

taken for treatment and both were later pronounced dead. The sheriff's office identified the man as 29-year-old

Theoddeus Gray of Detroit. 

CREDIT: The Windsor Star 
 
 


 
"If the evidence comes back and the young man had a gun, then that's another issue for them to deal with." 

Oliver Gantt 

Detroit activist 

The St. Clair Shores community laid to rest Wednesday a beloved member of its police force, K-9 Axe, a police dog

who died in the line of duty 10 days earlier. 

A memorial service, complete with law enforcement canines and bagpipes, was held for Axe at the packed

Assumption Greek Orthodox Church. The hour-long service occurred three days before the funeral for Theoddeus

Gray, a Detroit man who police said shot Axe before officers fatally shot the 29-year-old. 

The tragedy has brought together many in the lakeside community, who have adorned their homes and businesses

with blue lights in support of Axe and police, and raised questions by others, including Gray's family, about what

happened that night. 

the table. 

The shooting incident remains under investigation by the Macomb County Sheriff's Office. No dashcam or body

camera video, or reports of the incident, have been released. 

The memorial for Axe included a table with black cloth holding, among other items, a folded American flag, a badge

and collar and a picture of the 4-year-old German shepherd. Law enforcement canines and their handlers filed past

St. Clair Shores Mayor Kip Walby said the service was "to honor a fallen hero" that paid "the ultimate sacrifice." He

said Axe pursued a suspect ahead of his human counterparts and may have saved the life of a colleague or

bystander. He called what took place Nov. 4 "a chaotic situation." 

Police Chief Todd Woodcox said he could not go into details because the sheriff's office is investigating, but said

officers responded professionally and admirably, and the force lost a friend, a brother and "a valued member of our

police department" who loved his job and family. Axe was with the force since 2016. 

Terry Foley, president of the National Association of Professional Canine Handlers, told mourners Axe was named

for a fallen Navy SEAL, that he eventually warmed up to his handler's wife and curled up next to family members,

but also was "all business" on the job, being used more than 250 times to track suspects, search buildings, detect

narcotics and find lost seniors and children. 

As mourners remembered Axe and his family, the Gray family prepared for Gray's funeral Saturday in Detroit. His

relatives declined to be interviewed, family spokesman and Detroit activist Oliver Gantt said. 

Gray was attending a baby shower for his first child Nov. 4 at Lakeland Manor on Harper. Gantt said that Gray was

shaking hands and greeting people, according to information he received from Gray's family. Gantt wasn't there,

but he said something happened in the hall —an exchange of words —between Gray and his pregnant girlfriend's

family. 

were inside, police said. 

City police said officers responded to the hall after receiving calls of a man with a rifle outside. About 70 people

"Upon officer arrival, a male matching this description was observed standing outside the banquet hall," a news

release stated. "The male ignored several demands from officers and attempted to flee the scene on foot." 

Axe was deployed and was shot by the suspect with a handgun, the news release said. Officers returned fire,

striking the suspect, who was taken to an area hospital where he was pronounced dead, police said. 

Axe was taken to a Madison Heights animal hospital where he was pronounced dead. 

Gantt said it's known both the dog and Gray were shot, but he said that it hasn't been reported that a gun was

found near or around Gray, raising the question: "who do they think shot that dog?" He said Gray's family also said

Gray did not have a gun when he was running and shot by police. 

Gantt said "if the evidence comes back and the young man had a gun, then that's another issue for them to deal

with." 

The cause of Gray's death was multiple gunshot wounds and the manner of death was homicide, said Lisa Croff,

spokeswoman for the Wayne County Medical Examiner's Office. 

Gantt said the information he has received is that Gray was shot from behind at least 10 times from the head

down. Authorities have not released details on the number or location of wounds, and the Free Press has

requested a copy of the autopsy report through the Freedom of Information Act. 

While Gray had runs-in with police, including a two-year prison sentence on a drug charge in 2013, Gantt said Gray

also was his parent's only child who had a love for music, writing and producing his own music for a career in rap. 

Gantt said that Gray's family conveyed that Gray had a kind heart, loved his family and friends and was looking

forward to being a father. 

Contact Christina Hall: chall@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter: @challreporter. 

"If the evidence comes back and the young man had a gun, then that's another issue for them to deal with." 

Mourners attend the service for Axe at Assumption Greek Orthodox Church in St.Clair Shores. 

Kirthmon F. Dozier/ Detroit Free Press 

Oliver Gantt 

Detroit activist 

Theoddeus Gray 

CREDIT: Christina Hall 
 
 


 
Macomb County law enforcement authorities have cleared St. Clair Shores police officers in the fatal shooting of a

Detroit man earlier this month in what they said Wednesday was an exchange of gunfire that also left a K-9 dog

dead. 

County Sheriff Anthony Wickersham discussed the investigation during a news conference Wednesday at the

sheriff's office. St. Clair Shores Police Chief Todd Woodcox also attended. 

The investigation raised the possibility that Axe, the St. Clair Shores police dog, may have been killed by friendly

fire instead of by the suspect as originally reported. 

Detroit outside Lakeland Manor in St. Clair Shores. 

The results of the investigation come less than three weeks after the Nov. 4 shooting of Theoddeus Gray, 29, of

Authorities had originally said that officers opened fire on Gray after he shot Axe, a police dog, with a handgun. 

But at Wednesday's news conference, Wickersham said it is unclear who shot Axe and that officers began firing at

Gray after he pulled a gun from his waistband and fired a shot at them while running away. 

He said Gray was shot six times —once each in the head, left back, left arm, left thigh, right thigh and right foot. He

said there was no puncture from a K-9. 

Wickersham said five officers fired a total of 48 shots during the Nov. 4 incident. None of the officers was hit. 

After the dog was struck, he ran back toward Lakeland Manor and was found by a side door, Wickersham said. Axe

was taken to an animal hospital and died. 

leg and right shoulder blade. 

Wickersham said ballistics information is pending on bullet fragments found inside the police dog on its left front

Gray's FN57 5.7mm pistol is believed to have jammed after he fired the first shot, Wickersham said. He said the

gun was found under Gray, and that a loaded, AK47 semi-automatic rifle was found next to the banquet hall,

though he released no additional details about that weapon. 

Wickersham said in the first engagement with police, Gray was running with Axe behind him. Offscreen in a video,

a round was fired, hitting the ground. He said Gray fired in the direction of officers, who took cover and fired. 

The sheriff said Gray was struck and continued to flee. He said officers gave Gray commands to drop the weapon

and a witness heard the yelling and saw Gray's weapon come up in the second confrontation with police. 

"If the gun didn't jam, he had 20 more rounds to fire at law enforcement," Wickersham said, adding that the gun

Gray had is the same type of weapon used by the sheriff's SWAT team. 

Vince Colella, an attorney representing Gray's family, said he and the family "look forward to reviewing all the

evidence" and are "very disappointed" based on what they saw Wednesday. He delayed in giving his opinion until

he sees what the evidence shows. 

But Colella said he has "so many questions," such as whether the frantic 911 call from a banquet hall employee

who said Gray had a long gun, was occurring simultaneously on the video released Wednesday by the sheriff's

office as Gray and a group of people were seen congregating around the door. He said he didn't see a gun in any of

the video he saw. 

Gray was attending a baby shower for his first child at the time of the incident. 

Family spokesman Oliver Gantt previously said that Gray was shaking hands and greeting people, according to

information he received from Gray's family. Gantt wasn't there, but he said something happened in the hall —an

exchange of words —between Gray and his pregnant girlfriend's family. 

Based on information coming from an FBI agent and a confidential informant source, Wickersham said, police

believe Gray was expecting a fight or confrontation of some sort. He said Gray was agitated inside and outside and

that multiple party guests were in possession of weapons. 

"There was gonna be a shootout in St. Clair Shores that night," Wickersham said. 

City police said officers responded to the hall after receiving calls of a man with a rifle outside. About 70 people

were inside, police said. 

to flee the scene on foot." 

"Upon officer arrival, a male matching this description was observed standing outside the banquet hall," an initial

news release from St. Clair Shores Police stated. "The male ignored several demands from officers and attempted

Authorities said the police dog was released to go after Gray just before the gunfire erupted. 

Gray's relatives, contacted through spokesman Gantt, declined to be interviewed for a prior Free Press article. 

Wickersham said at the news conference that his agency reached out to Gray's family, sending letters through an

attorney, to get their side but they have yet to contact the sheriff's office. 

Colella said he's not certain what letters Wickersham was referring to, adding he hasn't received any letters from

the sheriff's office requesting anything of them. He said there was a call from a deputy sheriff requesting names of

witnesses that could speak to them, but Colella wasn't aware of any additional witnesses. 

"We have nothing further to add to the investigation," he said. "The onus is on the department to take those

witness statements. It's not up to the family to do the investigation for them." 

Gray's family also hired an independent medical examiner. 

Gray had runs-in with police, including a two-year prison sentence on a drug charge in 2013. 

On Nov. 14, a memorial service complete with law enforcement canines and bagpipes, was held for Axe, a 4-year-

old German shepherd, at the packed Assumption Greek Orthodox Church in St. Clair Shores. The hour-long service

occurred three days before the funeral for Gray. 

The tragedy brought together many in the lakeside community, who adorned their homes and businesses with blue

lights in support of Axe and police, but raised questions by others, including Gray's family, about what happened

that night. 

future training with his officers. 

"It's tragic anyone lost their life," Woodcox said Wednesday, adding that the sheriff's investigation will be used for

The incident was among five officer-involved shootings in Michigan in November, four of them fatal. The most

recent one occurred on Monday, when a state police trooper shot and wounded a 26-year-old man after a car chase

on I-96 in Livonia. Authorities say the man had shot and wounded his wife and then abducted her from her job in

Livonia. Both the man and his wife remained hospital, police said Wednesday. 

Contact Christina Hall: chall@freepress.com. Follow her on Twitter: @challreporter. 

CREDIT: Christina Hall 
 
 


 
The family of a man fatally shot by police near a St. Clair Shores banquet hall has filed a $10-million lawsuit

against the city and several officers. 

The lawsuit alleges that Theoddeus Gray, 29, of Detroit was unarmed and had already surrendered to police when

he was killed Nov. 4 outside Lakeland Manor on Harper Avenue, according to the complaint filed Thursday in U.S.

District Court in Detroit. A police K-9 was also fatally shot. 

But police said Gray fired on them and was found with a gun. 

Officers went to the banquet hall after receiving a frantic 911 call about a man with a gun. Gray was there to attend

his girlfriend's baby shower. 

wrongdoing. 

Law enforcement officials said Gray pulled a gun from his waistband and fired at police officers while running

away from them. Following an investigation by the Macomb County Sheriff's Office, the officers were cleared of

The lawsuit, filed by Gray's father, accuses Officers Tom Price, Jessie Smith, James Ziemiecki, Trevor Head and

Travis Kaufman of acting negligently and being improperly trained. 

"Defendant City of St. Clair Shores had an unconstitutional policy, practice, and/or custom of allowing officers to

use excessive and/or deadly force against citizens," the lawsuit reads. 

St. Clair Shores City Manager Michael Smith and Police Chief Todd Woodcox did not immediately return messages

left Thursday by the Free Press. 

The lawsuit says within seconds of police deploying a K-9 named Axe after Gray, officers "began firing upon Gray

striking him at least once in the right foot as he entered the parking lot of Harper Auto Electric, Inc." Gray was shot

to death in the parking lot, according to the lawsuit. 

Axe was shot and fatally wounded during the foot chase. Authorities originally said that officers opened fire on

Gray after he shot Axe. But Macomb County Sheriff Anthony Wickersham, in a news conference three weeks after

the shooting, said it was unclear who shot the dog. The lawsuit says one of the officers did. 

Gray was shot six times. Wickersham said the officers fired a total of 48 shots. No officers were hit. 

Wickersham also said Gray had a FN57 5.7mm pistol that is believed to have jammed after he fired the first shot.

He said the gun was found under Gray. A loaded, AK-47 semi-automatic rifle was found next to the banquet hall. 

Additionally, Wickersham said police believe Gray was expecting a fight or confrontation of some sort at the

banquet hall. 

CREDIT: Christina Hall; Ann Zaniewski 
 
 

4/16/2019

Family of man killed by suburban Detroit police seeks $10M

Document: Family of man killed by suburban Det… Actions  
Nexis Uni®
    

Menu 



 

 

 

 

Select Language  ▼     Disclaimer

 EN  

Sign In | Register

Go to 

Theoddeus Gray 1 of 1    Search Document 
 

 

Family of man killed by suburban Detroit police seeks $10M

Results list

2 of 42



To save documents and
searches, register with
Nexis Uni®. For details,
read this pdf

Got it!
Got it!



Export Citation

The Associated Press

February 8, 2019 Friday 5:37 PM GMT

Copyright 2019 Associated Press All Rights Reserved

Section: DOMESTIC NEWS

Length: 135 words

Dateline: DETROIT

 
Body

DETROIT (AP) ­ The family of a man who was fatally shot by police outside a baby shower in

suburban Detroit has filed a $10 million wrongful death lawsuit against police.

The federal lawsuit was filed Thursday on behalf of the family of 29­year­old Theoddeus Gray

of Detroit. The suit says Gray was shot while unarmed and after surrendering to police in St.

Clair Shores.

about a man with a gun.

Gray was fatally shot Nov. 4 outside Lakeland Manor banquet hall after police got a report

Police Chief Todd Woodcox disputes Gray surrendered, telling The Macomb Daily that the

lawsuit was "the first I've heard of any allegation that he had surrendered."

Macomb County Sheriff Anthony Wickersham says Gray was armed and his office's investigation

determined that the shooting was justified. A police dog also was killed.

 
Classification

Language: ENGLISH 

Document­Type: Spot Development 

Publication­Type: Newswire 



https://advance-lexis-com.stanford.idm.oclc.org/document/?pdmﬁd=1516831&crid=9d0b375a-52d3-4a34-a031-044077fd8534&pddocfullpath=%2Fshared%2Fdocu… 1/2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
"Nobody wants to do this. This is 

the last thing that our officers 

want to do." 

Robert J. Shelide 

Shelby Twp. Police Chief 

DETROIT –A man fatally shot by a Shelby Township police officer in an apartment complex parking lot on Saturday

has been identified by the Macomb County Sheriff's Office. 

According to Shelby Township police, officers were investigating a stolen vehicle at the Spring Hill Apartments on

Spring Lane at 1 a.m. 

The vehicle was occupied by a man, now identified as Kanwarbir Malhi, 25, of Shelby Township. 

He "refused to comply with officers repetitive verbal commands and informed officers that he was armed," a news

release from the police department said. 

The officer then fired his weapon to "to stop his aggressive action." Police said Malhi sustained "a single gunshot

wound," was treated on the scene by officers and members of the Shelby Township Fire Department, then taken to

Troy Beaumont Hospital. 

Malhi died due to his injuries, and the officer who fired the shot has been placed on administrative leave. 

The ongoing investigation has been turned over to the Macomb County Sheriff's Office. 

At a press conference on Monday, Shelby Twp. Police Chief Robert J. Shelide clarified details of the incident. He

said police were contacted by Malhi's parents, who said their son stole their vehicle on Friday. On Saturday, he

said, Malhi was spotted by officers on patrol in the apartment complex parking lot. 

Shelide said four officers encountered Malhi, but he refused to listen to their verbal commands and told them he

"There were furtive hand gestures made along with verbal statement, and that's what lead our officer into firing his

weapon," Shelide said. "Our officers (are) out there protecting our community, but they also have to protect

was armed. 

themselves." 

Shelide said the incident was a family matter that became a tragic situation. He added that the officer who shot

Malhi has been on Shelby Police force for 17 years, "with an exemplary record." 

"Nobody wants to do this," Shelide said. "This is the last thing that our officers want to do." 

Shelide said he's aware that prior to this incident, Malhi has had multiple contacts with police officers —but with

another department. Dash cam footage of the incident was also recorded. 

The sheriff's office will be taking everything into consideration in their investigation, Shelide said. 

This marked the second fatal shooting by a police officer in Macomb County in two days. 

The Macomb County Sheriff's Office has identified the man who was shot and killed Sunday in an exchange with

St. Clair Shores police outside a banquet hall as a 29-year-old Detroiter. 

A police dog named Axe also died in the line of duty during the incident. 

Officers were responding to calls of an armed man outside the Lakeland Manor on Harper Avenue between 10 and

11 Mile roads, where about 70 people were gathered inside, police said. 

The man, now identified as Theoddeus Gray, was standing outside armed with a rifle and handgun, ignored

demands from officers and attempted to flee on foot, police said. 

Axe, the department's K-9, was deployed and then reportedly shot by Gray with a handgun. Then, officers returned

fire and struck the suspect, who was taken to a hospital and pronounced dead. 

The Sheriff's Office is heading the investigation but has not shared further details about the incident or a possible

motive. 

Omar Abdel-Baqui also contributed to this report. 

"Nobody wants to do this. This is 

the last thing that our officers 

want to do." 

Robert J. Shelide 

Shelby Twp. Police Chief 

CREDIT: Aleanna Siacon 
 
 

4/16/2019

Michigan sheriff clears 5 local cops in shooting death of man outside his child's baby shower



U.S. NEWS

Michigan sheriﬀ clears 5 local cops in shooting death of man outside his child's baby
shower
A spokesman for the man's family questioned the police narrative that the victim ﬁred at oﬃcers.

Watch footage of oﬃcer-involved shooting at a Michigan baby shower
NOV. 28, 201803:58

Nov. 28, 2018, 10:26 AM PST
By Janelle Griﬃth

A Michigan sheriﬀ on Wednesday said ﬁve local police oﬃcers involved in the fatal shooting of a Detroit man earlier this month have
been cleared of any wrongdoing.

Macomb County Sheriﬀ Anthony Wickersham released the ﬁndings of his agency's investigation at a Wednesday news conference a
little over three weeks after the Nov. 4 shooting of Theoddeus Gray, 29.

Gray was killed by oﬃcers responding to a call from a banquet hall in St. Clair Shores where Gray was attending a baby shower for

his ﬁrst child. An employee called police to report a man with a riﬂe outside the venue.

Authorities originally said that oﬃcers opened ﬁre on Gray after he shot and killed Axe, a 4-year-old police dog, with a handgun. At
Wednesday’s news conference, Wickersham said it's unclear who shot Axe and that oﬃcers ﬁred at Gray because he ﬁred at them.

“If somebody is shooting at the police, you can expect that the police are going to ﬁre back,” Wickersham said.

Oliver Gantt, a spokesman for the Gray family, questioned the police narrative.

"They claim they shot the young man because he shot the K 9 dog Axe," Gantt said to NBC News. "Now they’re pivoting, saying he
was not shooting at Axe."

https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/5-michigan-cops-justiﬁed-use-deadly-force-baby-shower-sheriff-n941231

1/2

4/16/2019

Michigan sheriff clears 5 local cops in shooting death of man outside his child's baby shower

Gantt also noted the money raised in response to the dog's death. More than $15,000 was donated in Axe's honor to get protective
vests and ﬁrst-aid bags for other police dogs.

"They valued the dog’s life more than they valued this man’s life," Gantt said.

Theoddeus Gray outside a banquet hall in video footage captured from the front of the hall, in St. Clair Shores, Michigan, on Nov. 4,

2018. Macomb County Sheriff's Office

Police on Wednesday released audio from the 911 call and footage captured from outside the venue that evening, where Gray and

about a dozen others had gathered outside before police arrived. Police said Gray ignored several demands from oﬃcers and
attempted to ﬂee the scene on foot. Gantt said the video footage did not show Gray holding a gun.

A fully loaded AK 47 was recovered on the banquet hall property, Sheriﬀ Wickersham said. It is unclear who it belonged to.

He said that Gray's pistol jammed after he ﬁred the ﬁrst shot, but he continued to ﬂee. Gray was hit by six bullets, police said. None
of the oﬃcers were hit.

Wickhersham said his oﬃce believes Gray was prepared for some type of confrontation that evening.

St. Clair Shores Police Chief Todd Woodcox on Wednesday said he has not disclosed the identities of the oﬃcers — who include a

20-year veteran — because his department has received threats since Gray's death that he believes are related to the incident.

Reached Wednesday, the Macomb County Prosecutor's Oﬃce could not say whether it was also investigating the shooting.

Janelle Griffith

Janelle Griﬃth is a breaking news reporter for NBC News. 

https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/5-michigan-cops-justiﬁed-use-deadly-force-baby-shower-sheriff-n941231

2/2

 

 
ST. CLAIR SHORES, Mich. - Authorities say officers shot and killed a man who fatally shot a police dog near a

banquet hall in suburban Detroit. 

gathering with about 70 people was taking place. 

St. Clair Shores police responded Sunday night to a report of a man with a rifle outside Lakeland Manor, where a

Police say the man ignored officers' instructions and fled. K-9 officer Axe was sent to track the man and police say

the man shot the dog with a handgun. Police say officers then fired, striking the man. The man and the police dog

were taken for treatment and later pronounced dead. 

The Macomb County sheriff's office identified the man as 29-year-old Theoddeus Gray of Detroit. 

Axe had been with the police department since 2016. The sheriff's office is investigating. 
 
 


 
"He was so looking forward to his first child. He'd been out shopping all day for his baby boy and was looking

forward to being a great dad." 

Oliver Gantt, Family spokesman, on Theoddeus Gray 

Friends and family of Theoddeus Gray filled a Detroit church with songs and prayer at a funeral service on

Saturday for the 29-year-old man who was fatally shot by police Nov. 4 in St. Clair Shores. 

A collage of photographs, including Gray, smiling with friends and family, was displayed near the entrance of

Jamison Temple Baptist Church. The service began at 11 a.m., and nearly 30 minutes later, there was only

standing room. A poem called "Justice for Theo" was read by a young woman, and the pastor spoke of the value of

human life. 

home-going service." 

"It wasn't a sad occasion," said Oliver Gantt, a family spokesman who attended the ceremony. "It was hurtful for

the parents and those who loved him, but there was a lot of love in that room, wall-to-wall. It was (a) beautiful

St. Clair Shores police fatally shot Gray outside of a baby shower for his first child on Nov.4 at Lakeland Manor on

Harper. Macomb County Sheriff's Office is investigating the circumstances. 

Gantt, who wasn't at the baby shower, said that Gray's family told him Theoddeus Gray had been shaking hands

and greeting people before something happened in the hall —an exchange of words —between Gray and his

pregnant girlfriend's family. 

Police said officers responded to the hall, where there were about 70 people in attendance, after receiving calls of a

man with a rifle outside. Officers matched the description to Gray. After ignoring several demands from police,

Gray began to flee on foot, according to a news release from police. 

A police dog was then deployed, and police say Gray fatally shot the dog, named Axe, with a handgun. Officers

returned fire, fatally shooting Gray. He was taken to an area hospital and pronounced dead. 

Gantt said the family hired an independent medical examiner, and the information he has received is that Gray was

shot from behind at least 10 times from the head down. 

Authorities have not released details on the number or location of wounds, and the Free Press has requested a

copy of the autopsy report through the Freedom of Information Act. The cause of Gray's death was multiple

gunshot wounds and the manner of death was homicide, said Lisa Croff, spokeswoman for the Wayne County

Medical Examiner's Office. 

Gray's body will be interred at Lincoln Memorial Park Cemetery, near 14 Mile and Gratiot Avenue in Clinton

Township. His casket on Saturday was covered in red roses and white daisies. 

Gray's family declined to be interviewed. Media were not allowed inside the service on Saturday. 

Sergeant O'brien with the Macomb County Sheriff's Office told the Free Press on Saturday that the shooting

incident remains under investigation. 

information will become available. 

No dashcam or body camera video, or reports of the incident, have been released. It remains unclear when more

The information officials have released so far has raised questions about what happened that night. 

"First they said there were reports a rifle, and then they say it's a handgun? Which one is it?" said Gantt. 

A memorial service for Axe, a four-year-old German Shepard, was held on Nov. 14 at Assumption Greek Orthodox

Church in St. Clair Shores. 

"There is zero proof that Theo shot that dog," Gantt said. "The bullets beat the dog to Theo." 

Gray, of Detroit, was the only child of parents Theoddeus and Tracy. He was born on May 12, 1989 in Detroit and

had long been a member of Pastor Homer Jamison's church, according to a memorial service program. He

graduated from Clintondale Alternative High School and had a "contagious spirit." It also said Gray was "smooth,

charismatic" and had a charming smile. 

He enjoyed shopping, dressing sharp, and from a young age embraced a career in rap. He was known as "Bands

Thee" and was popular on social media. One of his YouTube videos has nearly 50,000 views. Gantt said that Gray

was working on a full-length album at the time of his death. 

"He was so looking forward to his first child," said Gantt. "He'd been out shopping all day for his baby boy and was

looking forward to being a great dad." 

Reporter Christina Hall contributed to this report. Follow Meira Gebel on Twitter @MeiraGebel. 

"He was so looking forward to his first child. He'd been out shopping all day for his baby boy and was looking

forward to being a great dad." 

Oliver Gantt, Family spokesman, on Theoddeus Gray 

CREDIT: Meira Gebel 
 
 


Reports: Man killed by police was 'paranoid, - Deseret News, The (Salt
Lake City, UT) - April 20, 2018
April 20, 2018 | Deseret News, The (Salt Lake City, UT) | Pat Reavy Deseret News

By Pat Reavy

Deseret News

SALT  LAKE CIT Y - In the days and weeks leading up to Lonnie Marcel B owen
killed by police, he exhibited odd behavior, fueled by either drug use or mental illness, or both, and
believed that police were out to get him, according to newly released police reports.

Lonnie Marcel Bowen being shot and

On T uesday, Bowen, 41, of Salt Lake City, was shot by a Unified police officer following a 911 call
from a man threatening to stab a woman and a police chase.

T he incident began about 3 a.m. when emergency dispatchers received a call from an "agitated"
man who said, "T ell your officers to back off, or I will shove this knife through her throat," said
Unified Police Lt. Brian Lohrke.

Police began looking for a pickup truck, which was spotted an hour later by West Valley police.

T he ensuing chase ended near the intersection of 2700 South and 8400 West about 4:15 a.m.
after West Valley police successfully spiked the tires on the truck, Lohrke said. A Unified police
officer approached the vehicle. When he got there, he saw something that prompted him to fire at
least one shot, but investigators have not elaborated on what that was.

A woman who was also in the truck, possibly being held hostage, suffered minor injuries and was
treated at a hospital. T hose undisclosed injuries, Lohrke said, happened before the shooting and
were inflicted by Bowen.

According to police reports obtained by the Deseret News through a public records request, that
incident came on the heels of a very similar incident just five days earlier.

On April 12, a woman claimed that Bowen "forced her to drive him around throughout the night ...
while at one point holding her with his arm around her neck while placing a screwdriver to her
throat and threatening to kill her if she tried to get away or call police," according to a Salt Lake City
police report.

T he woman told police that Bowen made her drive from Magna to LDS Hospital twice, allegedly
because he "needed meds," the report states.

"(T he woman) stated Lonnie became increasingly paranoid, violent and threatening to her during
the drive and upon arrival, refused to go inside," according to the report.

When officers found the truck, the woman told them that "she believes Lonnie abuses narcotics
but has never actually seen him abuse anything. (She) stated Lonnie is also bipolar but does not
take required medications. (She) stated Lonnie seemed fine while communicating online but ever
since arriving in Utah, he has been different. Paranoid, delusional, and abusive," the police report
states.

She also stated that during their ride, Bowen accused the woman of "working for the police and set
him up to have the police kill him," according to the report. "(She) stated Lonnie then picked up a
can of spray paint and a lighter and threatened to kill her by lighting her on fire."

When police arrived at the parking lot where the pickup was stopped, officers ordered Bowen out
at gunpoint. He was compliant and did not resist, according to the report.

"Lonnie stated he is bipolar and abuses methamphetamine," the report states. "Lonnie admitted he
believed (the woman) was trying to get him in trouble with the police and have them 'gun him
down' because of everything she was wrapped up in and his wanting to leave her. Lonnie ultimately
admitted his own substance abuse with methamphetamine stating he last used a couple of days
ago. Lonnie agreed his meth use could be causing paranoia thus contributing to his belief (the
woman) is trying to have the police kill him."

When officers talked to the woman, they noted in their report that, "although speaking rapidly at
points and going off subject, (she) did not appear intoxicated or under the influence of any
substance while speaking with her. (T he woman) did also state she suffers from bipolar disorder."

Although some evidence was collected, Salt Lake police on Thursday said that Bowen and the
woman gave contradicting stories about what had happened, and there wasn't enough physical
evidence to confirm either story. Because of that, Bowen was not arrested. Police transported him
back to the homeless shelter. A victim advocate was called for the woman and she was taken to an
emergency shelter, according to police.

Salt Lake police declined to say Thursday whether it was the same woman who was in the truck
with Bowen on T uesday.

Salt Lake officers also came in contact with Bowen on March 23.

In that incident, a woman called police to report Bowen "was having a mental breakdown and
stabbing things with a screwdriver inside her car," according to a police report.

Officers arrived and took Bowen into custody without incident.

"He said he believes people are after him and said he believed someone was still in the vehicle
trying to get at him. T he vehicle was checked and no one else was found. Lonnie stated he just got
out of the psych ward at McKay Dee hospital a few days ago. He said he was prescribed new
medications but had not started taking them yet," the report states.

Police decided to "pink slip" Bowen at that time, or send him to University Neuropsychiatric

Institute "for an involuntary commitment for a psychiatric exam. Lonnie was very cooperative
throughout the whole process and understood that he needed help," according to the report.

On March 18, police were called to deal with Bowen on another incident. In that case, he was
standing in front of a hotel, 1729 N. Beck St., and was asked to leave because he was making
guests uncomfortable, according to the report. An officer took Bowen back to the homeless
shelter, the report states.

On Sunday, just two days before he was shot, Bowen posted several videos on Facebook saying
police were out to kill him.

On his Facebook page, which was created just a couple of weeks ago, the final posts on the page
are four livestream videos all recorded between 4 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. Sunday. In the recordings,
Bowen is talking while driving, and suggests that he is going to be killed by either Salt Lake police or
the Ogden Metro Strike Force.

"Salt Lake PD are killers. And they are responsible for anything that happens to me death-wise.
T hey want to kill me," he said. "T hey want me dead, for whatever reason, they want me dead."

Bowen contends the police will make his death look like criminal activity was involved.

"I'm putting this video out there so the world knows who is responsible for my death," he
continued. "I know they're gunning for me. I know they waiting for me."

Bowen had a lengthy criminal history, according to court records, including a conviction for
attempted murder in 1996, and he spent time in the Utah State Prison. He was most recently
released from prison in January.

Email: preavy@deseretnews.com

T witter: DNewsCrimeT eam

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Deseret News Publishing  Company

 


 
MAGNA —New body camera video released by the West Valley City police Wednesday shows the tense moments

before an officer shot and killed a man who was allegedly holding a woman hostage at knifepoint inside a pickup

truck back in April. 

Lonnie Marcel Bowen, 41, of Salt Lake City, was killed in the officer-involved shooting. Prosecutors determined in

October that Unified police officer Trever McLelland was justified in using deadly force and he was not charged. 

Bowen was in a pickup truck with a woman that had come to a stop at 2750 S. 8400 West following a police chase

that began in West Valley City in the early hours of April 17. Authorities said the woman was an ex-girlfriend of

Bowen's and that he was holding a knife to her. 

Bowen is heard on the video released Tuesday, but Unified Police Lt. Brian Lohrke said back on April 17 that a man

called officers and told them, “tell your officers to back off, or I will shove this knife through her throat.” 

The Salt Lake County District Attorney's report later determined Bowen made that call to police. 

The video released Wednesday shows Unified and West Valley City police officers with their guns drawn while

standing outside of their squad cars parked around the vehicle Bowen was in holding a woman hostage. 

The officers commanded Bowen to exit the vehicle. 

“He says he’ll kill her,” one of the officers said in the video. “He said he’s going to kill the passenger.” 

After a couple of minutes, police move up closer to the vehicle. 

“Let her go,” an officer yelled twice, while another officer tries to open the door of the pickup truck. The video

appears to briefly show the man's arm wrapped around the woman’s neck moments before five shots are fired by

McLelland off-screen. 

the knife in the video. 

The woman inside the vehicle screams and police get her out of the vehicle. The video also shows Bowen

apparently holding a knife in his right hand while slumped in the passenger seat of the truck. Officers also mention

The woman later told prosecutors that she ran into Bowen earlier in the night and that he appeared to be in a

"mentally distressed state." She said she begged him "don't do this, just get out" before the shots were fired. 

Bowen posted a live Facebook video just days before the shooting in which said he thought Salt Lake police were

trying to kill him. Salt Lake police said they had three interactions with him in the month before the shooting, but

none of them were negative. 

CREDIT: Carter Williams 
 
 

Man killed by Utah police on Tuesday had posted - Salt Lake Tribune,
The (UT) - April 17, 2018
April 17, 2018 | Salt Lake Tribune, The (UT)

A Unified Police Department officer shot and killed a man in Magna who was allegedly holding a
woman hostage in his truck early Tuesday morning.

T he man who was shot was identified as 41-year-old Lonnie Marcel B owen

Lonnie Marcel Bowen of Salt Lake City.

T he shooting occurred about 4:15 a.m., near the intersection of 2700 South and 8400 West,
according to a tweet from the Unified Police Department (UPD).

Events leading to the shooting began a little after 3 a.m., said Unified police Lt. Brian Lohrke. At
that time, an agitated man called dispatchers and said he was holding a woman hostage in a
vehicle.

"T ell your officers to back off, or I will shove this knife through her throat," the man told a 911
dispatcher, according to a UPD news release.

T he man also requested to speak to a hostage negotiator, and the call was transferred the UPD
dispatch center.

Not knowing who made the call, or whether the threat was legitimate, and having no officers in the
vicinity, UPD Millcreek officers were dispatched to the area of 3700 South and 900 East — a
location gleaned from a phone ping.

Officers did not notice anything out of the ordinary, other than a truck leaving the area. Police got
the license plate of the truck before it left, the news release said.

At about 4 a.m. UPD received information that West Valley City police were in pursuit of the same
truck.

T he chase started at about 5600 West and 3100 South, continuing west through West Valley City
and into Magna. During the pursuit through Magna, West Valley City officers deployed tire spikes
to disable the truck and it eventually came to a stop about 2750 South and 8400 West.

A UPD officer who arrived to assist approached the vehicle and fired at the man inside the cab of
the truck. Despite medical aid, the news release said, the man died at the scene.

T he female who was inside the truck was not struck by gunfire. She was taken to nearby hospital
and treated for injuries allegedly inflicted upon her by the male suspect.

Hours after the shooting, Salt Lake County Sheriff Rosie Rivera said it did not appear that officers

from West Valley City fired shots.

Citing an ongoing investigation, Rivera declined to release details about how many shots were
fired, the exact nature of the woman's injuries, whether the deceased man had a weapon on him
and who was driving the truck.

KUT V footage from the scene showed the truck's driver side window with a large hole in its center.

An outside agency, Salt Lake City Police Department, was leading the investigation, as is protocol
for Salt Lake Valley law enforcers' fatal use of force.

T wo days before his death, Bowen apparently posted videos to a Facebook page he appears to
share with a woman, saying police want him dead. Lohrke said authorities believe the man in the
video is Bowen.

In the videos, Bowen is driving, telling viewers that "T he Salt Lake PD are killers, and they
responsible for anything that happens to me death-wise. T hey want to kill me."

(Warning: T his video contains coarse language.)

Bowen, who is black, says in the footage that he doesn't know why police want to kill him, and he
alludes to an apparent affiliation with a gang, but he says he isn't "hostile in any kind of manner"
and isn't armed. When he dies, he says in a video, "crooked" police will try to cover it up.

"I'm just putting this video out there, just so the world knows who's responsible for my death,"
Bowen says.

Lohrke said he forwarded the videos to Salt Lake City police. He said he didn't know whether a
woman photographed with Bowen on the Facebook account is the woman he was with when he
was killed Tuesday .

Salt Lake City police had come in contact with Bowen about three times in the past month, with the
most recent interaction occurring about a week ago, Sgt. Brandon Shearer said.

Police confronted Bowen during calls about trespassing, mental health and assault. None of the
interactions ended with an arrest, and Shearer said he wouldn't classify any of them as "negative."

Shearer said he didn't know why Bowen would post the videos.

Lohrke said Unified police had been in contact with Bowen in Magna about a month ago.

Bowen has a criminal history stretching back 20 years. It includes several drug-related convictions
and an attempted-murder conviction — cases in which he went to prison at least four times,
according to Utah court records.

Most of the cases occurred in Millard County.

Bowen was most recently released from the Utah State Prison on Jan. 9, after completing a one-
to-15-year term for possession of a controlled substance in a drug-free zone, according to Utah
Board of Pardons officials.

In the attempted-murder case, a then-20-year-old Bowen pleaded guilty to stabbing a 60-year-old
man in his Delta apartment twice in the back and once in the neck with a steak knife in June 1996.
T he man recovered from his wounds, according to a news story from the time.

Bowen is the second black man killed by Utah police this month. West Valley City police shot Elijah
James Smith in the garage of a home on April 8. T hey say he had broken into the house after
robbing a store.

Copyrig ht Huntsman Family Investments, Salt Lake Tribune 2018. All Rights Reserved.

 
Officer who shot man holding hostage will not be - Deseret News, The
(Salt Lake City, UT) - October 25, 2018
October 25, 2018 | Deseret News, The (Salt Lake City, UT) | Pat Reavy Deseret News

By Pat Reavy

Deseret News

SALT  LAKE CIT Y - A Unified police officer who shot and killed a man holding a woman hostage
inside a vehicle at knifepoint will not face criminal charges.

But while prosecutors say they believe officer T rever McLelland's use of deadly force would be
determined to be justified if the case went to court, he followed the recent trend of other law
enforcers being investigated for critical incidents who declined to be interviewed by the Salt Lake
County District Attorney's Office.

On April 17, police received a report of a man threatening to kill a hostage, according to the district
Lonnie Marcel B owen, 41, made that call.
attorney's report. Investigators later determined that Lonnie Marcel B owen

Officers searching for the source of the call found a truck with Bowen inside. He led police on a
chase that ended near the intersection of 2700 South and 8400 West.

As McLelland and a West Valley officer approached the vehicle, they yelled at Bowen to "Let her go!
Let her go!" the report states. When Bowen did not follow orders, McLelland fired five rounds from
his rifle, killing him, according to the report.

T he West Valley officer who was with McLelland said he saw Bowen holding the woman inside the
cab but did not see a weapon, the report states. But when authorities later reviewed the officer's
body camera video, they saw a knife still in Bowen's hand after he was shot, according to the
report.

"Officer Pepper said he saw that the man had his arms around the woman's neck and was pulling
her back toward him in the passenger seat," according to the report.

T he woman, an ex-girlfriend of Bowen, said she ran into him earlier that night and he seemed to be
"off his meds" and in a "mentally distressed state," the report states. She later told police that
Bowen seemed "delusional" and "talked about police officers hiding inside the truck."

T he woman said Bowen punched her and held a knife to her throat threatening to kill her several
times as they drove around the valley, according to Gill's report. At one point, Bowen told the
woman to run over the police officers, she told investigators, but she refused.

Just before he was shot, the woman said she begged Bowen, "Please don't do this, just get out."

Bowen yelled to police, "T his is a hostage situation, I'll kill her," the woman told investigators. She
said he then held the knife tighter to her and told her, "You're going to cover me," the report
states.

Bowen had several encounters with police in the weeks leading up to being shot, and had issues
with mental illness and drug abuse, according to prior police reports. Just two days before he was
shot, Bowen posted several videos on Facebook claiming police were out to kill him.

Earlier this month, it was announced that no charges would be filed against Cottonwood Heights
police officer Casey Davies for using deadly force on Zane Anthony James. Granite School District
police officer Jonathan Sidhu and Adult Probation and Parole officer Daniel Hampton were also
cleared in shootings prior to that. But in all four cases, the officers declined to be interviewed as
part of the investigations.

Cottonwood Heights Police Chief Robby Russo said the problem is a rift between Gill and the
Fraternal Order of Police, and officers are being told by their attorneys not to speak to Gill.

Email: preavy@deseretnews.com

T witter: DNewsCrimeT eam

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Deseret News Publishing  Company

 

 
SALT LAKE CITY (AP) - A 41-year-old man shot and killed by police in suburban Salt Lake City this week had

previous run-ins with police and claimed to have mental illness.  

Spokespeople with the Salt Lake City and Unified Police Departments said Friday that they had several encounters

with Lonnie Marcel Bowen before he was killed following an alleged hostage incident on Tuesday morning. None of

the previous contacts were serious or violent.  

The Deseret News reports that police documents show Bowen told police he was bipolar and abused drugs.  

Black Lives Matter activist Lex Scott says those should have been warning signs for police to act less aggressively

and instead bring a mental health counselor onto the scene."  

The incident is under investigation.  

Bowen's shooting was one of three fatal shootings by police in April in Utah.  

___  

Information from: Deseret News, http://www.deseretnews.com  

Credit: By JEFF AMY, Associated Press 
 
 

Unified police shoot, kill man in truck after - Deseret News, The (Salt
Lake City, UT) - April 18, 2018
April 18, 2018 | Deseret News, The (Salt Lake City, UT) | Pat Reavy Deseret News

By Pat Reavy

Deseret News

MAGNA - A Salt Lake man was shot and killed by police early T uesday, just two days after posting
several videos on Facebook saying police were out to kill him.

Lonnie Marcel B owen
Lonnie Marcel B owen, 41, of Salt Lake City, was shot by a Unified police officer following a wild
series of events that included a 911 call from a man threatening to stab a woman and a chase.

T he incident began about 3 a.m. when emergency dispatchers received a call from an "agitated"
man who said, "T ell your officers to back off, or I will shove this knife through her throat," said
Unified Police Lt. Brian Lohrke.

T he man also requested to speak to a hostage negotiator, he said.

At that time, however, police were not on the scene of any incident.

Lohrke said it is possible that the man who made the 911 call was the one who was later shot, but
that had not been confirmed T uesday.

Police didn't initially know if the call was legitimate, but they "pinged" the cellphone the call was
made from, and two officers went to an apartment complex near 3600 South and 900 East. T he
only activity the officers saw was a pickup truck leaving the area. At that time, the officers did not
see any suspicious activity within the truck, Lohrke said. T he officers, however, wrote down the
license plate number as a precaution.

When they looked up information about the license plate, officers learned either the vehicle or the
registered owner had been connected to criminal activity in the past, Lohrke said. At that point, the
officers put out an alert to all agencies to be on the lookout for the truck.

Meanwhile, West Valley police may have also received a similar call from a man threatening a
woman, Lohrke said. T hey were put on alert to look for the pickup truck and spotted it near 5600
West and 3100 South, he said.

T he ensuing chase ended near the intersection of 2700 South and 8400 West about 4:15 a.m.
after West Valley police successfully spiked the tires on the truck, Lohrke said. One patrol car
stopped in front of the pickup truck and the other parked behind it.

A Unified police officer who arrived at the scene got out of his car and approached the vehicle.
When he got there, he saw something that prompted him to fire at least one shot, but
investigators did not elaborate on what that was.

A woman who was also in the truck, possibly being held hostage, suffered minor injuries and was
treated at a hospital. T hose undisclosed injuries, Lohrke said, happened before the shooting and
were inflicted by Bowen.

Bowen had a lengthy criminal history, according to court records, including a conviction for
attempted murder in 1996, and he spent time in the Utah State Prison. He was most recently
released from prison in January.

On his Facebook page, which was created just a couple of weeks ago, the final posts on the page
are four livestream videos all recorded between 4 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. Sunday. Police confirmed
T uesday the man in the videos was Bowen.

In the recordings, Bowen is talking while driving, and suggests that he is going to be killed by either
Salt Lake police or the Ogden Metro Strike Force.

"Salt Lake PD are killers. And they are responsible for anything that happens to me death-wise.
T hey want to kill me," he said. "T hey want me dead, for whatever reason, they want me dead."

Bowen contends the police will make his death look like criminal activity was involved.

"I'm putting this video out there so the world knows who is responsible for my death," he
continued. "I know they're gunning for me. I know they waiting for me."

In his videos, Bowen also talks about his gang affiliation and how his gang is like his family. He also
discusses snitches and says people who are caught doing a crime should be man enough to do the
time.

Salt Lake police reported having three interactions with Bowen in the past month, including one
within the past week. None of the interactions resulted in an arrest and none would be classified as
negative, said Salt Lake Police Sgt. Brandon Shearer.

One of those interactions was for a mental health issue, he said.

Email: preavy@deseretnews.com

T witter: DNewsCrimeT eam

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Deseret News Publishing  Company

 
No prosecution of Unified PD officer in fatal - Associated Press State
Wire: Utah (UT) - October 25, 2018
October 25, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Utah (UT)

SALT  LAKE CIT Y (AP) — Salt Lake County prosecutors have decided against charging a Unified
Police Department officer in an April 17 fatal shooting in which a man was killed while holding an ex-
girlfriend hostage in a pickup truck.

T he District Attorney's Office said Wednesday it believed any court proceedings would find that
Officer Trevor McLelland's use of deadly force against 41-year-old Lonnie Marcel B owen
Lonnie Marcel Bowen was
justified.

T he office's report says following a chase after police received a report of a man threatening to kill
hostage and that investigators later determined that Bowen made that call

T he report says police found a knife in Bowen's hand after he was shot and that a West Valley
officer at the scene said he saw Bowen holding his arms around the woman's neck and pulling her
toward him.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Salt Lake County DA won't charge Unified officer - Salt Lake Tribune,
The (UT) - October 25, 2018
October 25, 2018 | Salt Lake Tribune, The (UT)

T he Unified police officer who shot and killed a man who was holding his ex-girlfriend hostage in a
pickup truck in Magna in April will not be charged in the man's death, the Salt Lake County District
Attorney's office announced Wednesday.

While Officer Trevor McClelland declined to give prosecutors a statement about the shooting —
McClelland is the fourth Salt Lake County officer to do so this year — District Attorney Sim Gill said
in a letter explaining that body camera footage and statements' from other officers indicated the
shooting was justified under Utah law.

Lonnie Marcel Bowen was killed April 17, when police found him inside a pickup truck holding a
Lonnie Marcel B owen
knife to his ex-girlfriend's throat. T he woman told investigators Bowen had surprised her outside
her car around 11 p.m. the night before. She said he was "off his meds" and acting delusional. He
reportedly punched her in the mouth and forced her into his truck, where he accused her of
working with the police to have him killed.

T wo days before his death, Bowen posted videos to a Facebook page he appeared to share with a
woman. In the videos, he said police wanted him dead. He told viewers that police would try to
cover up his death. Bowen forced the woman to drive him around.

For the next several hours, Bowen and sometimes the woman called 911 to report the hostage
situation and ask for a negotiator. T he pair never gave police a good address. Dispatcher pinged
the man's phone to Millcreek and later West Valley City.

T he man told dispatchers multiple times as officers tried to find the truck that he would stab the
woman in the throat, according to the letter.

Police later found the pickup near 3100 South and 5600 West. Officers chased the pickup and used
spike strips, which eventually stopped the truck near 2750 South and 8400 West.

Officers approached the pickup. A West Valley City officer who responded to the scene said
McClelland yelled at Bowen, who was pulling the woman towards him in the passenger seat, to let
the woman go. When the man didn't, McClelland fired four or five rounds into the driver's side
window, hitting Bowen in the passenger seat.

Body camera footage shows that Bowen had a knife — described as 9 inches long, with a 5-inch
blade — in his hand after the shooting, according to the letter.

"While we don't know [because McClelland] didn't answer questions or give a statement, as is his
right not to] what Officer McClelland saw or heard or believed at the time he used deadly force, we

know what he could have seen or heard or believed, based on the facts we presently know," Gill
wrote.

Cottonwood Heights Officer Casey Davies, West Valley City officer Nicholaus Green and Granite
School District officer Jonathan Sidhu have each previously declined to give Gill a statement after
shooting suspects. Utah Fraternal Order of Police attorney Bret Rawson told T he Salt Lake T ribune
earlier this month that he doesn't trust Gill and thinks his prosecutorial decisions are politically
motivated.

Gill, who is up for re-election this year, denied those claims. In his eight-year tenure as district
attorney, he's evaluated about 65 police shootings. He's found four to be unjustified and filed
charges in three of those cases.

Correction: Oct. 25, 2018, 6:42 p.m. - An earlier version of this story incorrectly stated the number
of times Salt Lake County District Attorney Sim Gill has charged a police officer during his eight
years in office. He has prosecuted three officers.

Copyrig ht Huntsman Family Investments, Salt Lake Tribune 2018. All Rights Reserved.

 
Police shooting victim's mental illness prompts - Associated Press State
Wire: Utah (UT) - April 21, 2018
April 21, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Utah (UT)

SALT  LAKE CIT Y (AP) — A man killed in a police shooting in suburban Salt Lake City had previous
run-ins with law enforcement and claimed to have mental illness, prompting concerns Friday from
a Black Lives Matter activist that police acted too aggressively.

Officials with the Salt Lake City and Unified police departments said Friday that they had several
encounters with Lonnie Marcel B owen
Lonnie Marcel B owen, 41, before he was killed following a reported hostage
incident on Tuesday morning. None of the previous contacts were serious or violent, the
spokespeople said.

Police reports obtained by the Deseret News show that Bowen had previously told police he was
bipolar and abused methamphetamines. During one incident in March, authorities involuntarily
committed him to a psychiatric exam and he was "very cooperative" throughout that process.

Based on that information, police should have been more cautious and less quick to start shooting,
Black Lives Matter activist Lex Scott told T he Associated Press.

"Instead of seeing that person could have some mental health issues and was disturbed and
needed some de-escalation, obviously they pulled the trigger and he's dead," Scott said. "T hey did
not try to de-escalate the situation. T hey did not bring in a mental health counselor."

T he shooting is being investigated by the Salt Lake City Police Department.

Bowen was killed early Tuesday after police responded to a 911 call saying a man threatened to
stab an unidentified woman and asked to speak with a hostage negotiator.

Officers pursued a truck through West Valley City and into Magna, where police used tire spikes to
bring it to a halt.

One officer then approached the vehicle and fired inside, killing Bowen. Police spokespeople would
not comment on what led the officer to fire inside the vehicle.

Bowen's death was one of three fatal shootings by Utah police in April.

___

Information from: Deseret News, http://www.deseretnews.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

Police asked to not release video footage of fatal - Associated Press
State Wire: Maryland (MD) - June 26, 2018
June 26, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maryland (MD)

SILVER SPRING, Md. (AP) — Maryland state's attorney's officials have asked police to not release
video footage police say shows a man knock an officer down and stand over him as the officer
fatally shoots him.

WT OP-FM reports Howard County Deputy State's Attorney Mary Murphy and officials
investigating the shooting met with the Montgomery County Police Department Monday. A
department release says they asked the police to not yet publicly release body camera footage
because it could hurt their investigation.

Robert Lawrence
T he man killed in the June 11 shooting has been identified as 41-year-old Robert Lawrence
WhiteWhite, a black man from Silver Spring. T he officer has been identified as Anand Badgujar. Police
Chief J. Thomas Manger has said White became "combative" when confronted by Badgujar.

T he release also says White's autopsy findings are not yet complete.

___

Information from: WT OP-FM, http://www.wtop.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Police seek answers on what precipitated fatal - Associated Press: US
News Online - June 19, 2018
June 19, 2018 | Associated Press: US News Online

SILVER SPRING, Md. (AP) — Police in suburban Maryland are investigating what precipitated a fatal
confrontation between a police officer and a man who reportedly attacked him.

Montgomery County Police issued an update Monday evening on their investigation of the June 11
shooting, in which an officer shot and killed Robert Lawrence White
from Silver Spring.

Robert Lawrence White, a 41-year-old black man

Police say body-worn camera footage shows White twice assaulting the officer, 32-year-old Anand
Badgujar. T he officer responded to the first attack with pepper spray. When White charged him a
second time, Badgujar fired his gun.

Police say they are still investigating what initially drew the officer's attention to White. T hey say
Badgujar has declined to be interviewed.

Police say officers receive regular training on dealing with people experiencing mental-health issues
and how to de-escalate confrontations.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Associated Press All Rights Reserved

 
Police: Video shows man knock down officer before - Associated Press
State Wire: Maryland (MD) - June 12, 2018
June 12, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maryland (MD) | DAVID McFADDEN Associated Press

BALT IMORE (AP) — Body camera video shows a Maryland man knock down a police officer and
stand over him as the officer fatally shoots him, police said Tuesday without publicly releasing the
footage.

T he Montgomery County Police Department identified the officer as Anand Badgujar, a patrolman
who has spent roughly two years with the department. He was placed on paid administrative leave
after the Monday shooting death in Silver Spring, a Washington suburb.

Police Chief J. Thomas Manger told reporters that the 41-year-old black man became "combative"
in a parking lot of a townhouse community. Manger told reporters that the man was shot "multiple
times" and apparently was unarmed.

T he dead man was identified Tuesday as Robert Lawrence White
could not immediately be reached by telephone, and a home number listed for White was not
working.

Robert Lawrence White of Silver Spring. His relatives

After interviewing an uninvolved witness and reviewing video from Badgujar's body-worn camera
as well as images taken from a colleague's camera, police said White assaulted Badgujar after the
officer "attempted to speak" with him.

T he patrolman had come to the area on an unrelated call and it was not immediately clear what
caused him to focus on White. With the situation quickly escalating, the officer tried to pepper
spray White, police said, and then requested assistance after the man moved away.

When Badgujar returned to his cruiser to switch off the ignition, White "began approaching" him,
according to police. T hey assert White started "running at the officer," forcing Badgujar to back-
pedal away. T hey say White "knocked him down as the officer discharged his weapon."

"White fell, got up, stood over the officer who was still on the ground, and continued to assault the
officer, at which time the officer fired additional rounds," the Tuesday statement reads.

Authorities have not yet released audio or video from the officer's body-worn camera, but
Montgomery County police scanner recordings on Broadcastify.com capture a male officer's voice
saying there could be a "suicide-by-cop thing" taking place. T he voice also specifically makes
mention of the suspect putting his hands in a pocket.

Minutes later, an officer's voice can be heard saying: "Start fire-rescue for a gunshot, or for several
gunshots! Officers coming in, start with a med kit. Next officers coming in, start me a perimeter.
Get your crime scene tape out."

A county police spokesman declined to say anything about the audio captured by Broadcastify.

T he shooting death is being investigated by county detectives. Once completed, their findings will
be reviewed by the state's attorney's office in neighboring Howard County to determine if
Badgujar acted within the law and if the case needs to go before a grand jury.

___

Follow McFadden on T witter: https://twitter.com/dmcfadd

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
The Montgomery County Council held a public hearing Tuesday on a bill to establish a Policing Advisory

Commission that would examine and recommend policies governing police behavior in the Maryland county.  

Several high-profile incidents involving police have raised tensions between local law enforcement and civilians

recently.  

Earlier Tuesday, a police officer from Silver Spring was charged with second-degree assault and misconduct after

a video appeared to show him using his shin to force a man's head to the ground during an arrest.  

The proposed commission would consist of 15 members: nine civilians appointed by the council, four civilians

appointed by the county executive and two ex officio members, one each for the police department and the

Fraternal Order of Police.  

Unlike civilian oversight boards in jurisdictions such as Baltimore, the commission would not oversee individual

disciplinary cases but would be able to make general recommendations to the county council about disciplinary

policy, said council member Hans Riemer (D-At Large). 

"It would not review complaints about an officer, or investigate a police-involved incident. While those are crucial

matters, Maryland state law denies a body like this jurisdiction over personnel matters," Riemer, the lead sponsor

of the bill, wrote in a statement.  

In an interview, he added: "The hope is that this will create a more collaborative approach and that we won't have

an oppositional dynamic between the body and the police department."  

The council will vote on the bill in the fall.  

At a small demonstration before the public hearing, several activists said they approve of the idea of a civilian-led

commission. But some do not think that the Fraternal Order of Police, which is the union that represents the police

officers, or the police department should have seats on the commission, even if they are nonvoting members.  

"Who will have a voice on this commission?" state Del. Gabriel Acevero (D-Montgomery) asked a group of two

dozen activists gathered outside the county council building ahead of the public hearing. "Is this going to be

another bureaucratic entity? Or is this going to serve the people?" 

President of the Maryland Fraternal Order of Police Ismael "Vince" Canales countered at the hearing that the

commission should consist of members with experiences in law enforcement. Canales called on the council to

increase the number of police representatives from two to four. 

Riemer started working on the bill with members of the NAACP after the June 2018 shooting of Robert Lawrence

White, an unarmed black man, in Silver Spring.  

In the months since that shooting, council members say, they have been trying to restore public faith in law

enforcement. 

In May, Montgomery became the first major jurisdiction in the Washington region to require outside law

enforcement agencies to investigate police-involved deaths.  

rebecca.tan@washpost.com 
 
 


 
Montgomery County Council members 

unarmed black man in Silver Spring. 

are grappling with ways to boost public faith in law enforcement after last summer's fatal police shooting of an

Freshman council member Will Jawando (D-At Large) introduced the Law Enforcement Trust and Transparency Act

last week, while his colleague Hans Riemer (D-At Large) is drafting a bill that would create a committee to oversee

policing policy in the state's most populous jurisdiction. 

Their efforts reflect a national debate over how to oversee police actions and hold officers accountable, especially

after high-profile incidents caught on body cameras or cellphones in which people of color have been shot and

killed during encounters with law enforcement. 

While both Jawando and Riemer laud Montgomery's police force as professional and responsive, they also say the

June 2018 shooting death of Robert Lawrence White - and the limited information available about the investigation

- has caused a crisis of trust among some in the community. 

"Robert White's death is the latest incident in a tragic list of incidents nationwide," said Jawando, adding that the

shooting "exposed in my view some of the deficiencies in our current process." 

Montgomery police investigated White's death and sent the results of their probe to prosecutors in neighboring

Howard County, under a standing agreement the two counties have to review each other's officer-involved

shootings. 

In July, Howard County prosecutors issued a short letter saying no criminal charges would be filed against the

officer, Anand Badgujar, who is on administrative leave pending the results of an investigation by Montgomery

police into whether his actions adhered to department policy. Montgomery Police Chief J. Thomas Manger said

that administrative investigation is now complete and has been sent to the department's 3rd District commander

for review. 

been points of contention. 

The brevity of the prosecutors' letter, and the lack of information about how they arrived at their decision, have

"I think not having an explanation was not helpful," Montgomery County Executive Marc Elrich (D) said. "The whole

point of the outside investigation was for the investigations to be helpful. And I think most people would define

'helpful' as, you gave me an explanation, and either I understand the explanation or I don't." 

Under Jawando's bill, which is co-sponsored by the rest of the all-Democratic, nine-member council, any officer-

involved death, or any death of an individual in custody, in Montgomery County would have to be investigated by

an outside law enforcement team. 

publicly "to the extent permitted by law." 

If criminal charges were not filed against the officer, the team's investigative report would have to be released

"The public has a right to know what the investigation determined and why charges weren't filed," said Jawando, a

lawyer and former Obama administration aide who is one of four new members on the council. 

A public hearing on the bill is scheduled for March 5. 

Both Jawando and Elrich said they have been in contact with Howard County Executive Calvin Ball (D) over the

possibility of Howard's police force serving as the outside investigators. 

In a statement last week, Ball said that his county "is looking forward to working with Montgomery County on this

initiative. We support transparency as well as comprehensive processes and collaborations to ensure justice and

fairness in judicial cases involving police officers." 

union officials but would not elaborate further. 

Elrich said he has not yet spoken to Manger about the proposal. Jawando said he spoke to Manger and police

The Montgomery County Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 35 police union did not respond to a request for comment

on the legislation. Manger confirmed that he has spoken with officials about theproposed legislation and said he

will continue to do so, but declined to comment about the proposals. 

Linda M. Plummer, president of the Montgomery County chapter of the NAACP, said her group sent a letter to the

council supporting Jawando's bill. 

"For decades, we've been trying to have the public confidence restored in investigations by law enforcement when

they're shooting unarmed black men," Plummer said, adding that the legislation would go "a long way in balancing

criminal justice reform and the restoration of public support." 

White, 41, was shot by Badgujar in a Silver Spring parking lot on June 11, 2018, after the officer, who is of Indian

descent, approached him while returning from an unrelated call. 

Police body-camera footage showed White walking away as Badgujar tried to stop him, then advancing on the

officer at least three times. After White pushed Badgujar down, the officer opened fire. 

White's death also sparked demands from protesters for the creation of a civilian police oversight board, like the

independent commission created in Fairfax County to oversee police practices after an unarmed man was shot

and killed by police there in 2013. The officer involved pleaded guilty to manslaughter. 

Baltimore City, which is operating under a federal consent decree put in place after the Justice Department found

that the city's police officers routinely violated residents' civil rights, has a civilian review board that hears

complaints against police. Prince George's County, which borders Montgomery, has a panel of citizens that

reviews the police department's internal-affairs investigations. 

Riemer said he wanted to establish a board that would allow civilians to oversee police disciplinary actions in

Montgomery but was dissuaded by county council attorneys who said it would be hampered by state law,

including the Law Enforcement Officers' Bill of Rights. 

"I was hoping for a strong civilian role in the disciplinary process so that the public could be confident in those

decisions," Riemer said. 

He instead drafted legislation to create a seven-member advisory committee that would review and recommend

police policies and practices. He said he plans on introducing it in the next few weeks. 

Looking at policies instead of personnel, Riemer said, is a different way at getting at the same issue. 

"If we do a deep dive on data and look at what other departments are doing, perhaps we can tackle some of these

issues and implement policies or trainings that avoid incidents from happening in the first place," he said. 

jennifer.barrios@washpost.com 

Dan Morse contributed to this report. 

Credit: Jennifer Barrios 
 
 


 
Prosecutors close case on encounter that left unarmed man dead 

A Montgomery County police officer's actions were legally justified when he repeatedly and fatally shot an

unarmed man who attacked him in a Silver Spring parking lot last month, according to prosecutors who reviewed

the encounter. 

"We have, unanimously, concluded that [the officer's] actions were justified under the circumstances," Howard

County State's Attorney Dario J. Broccolino wrote in a brief letter, released Monday, stating that he was closing the

case, which had been transferred to his jurisdiction. 

The officer, Anand Badgujar, a two-year Montgomery County veteran, was driving his police car the afternoon of

June 11 when he saw Robert Lawrence White, 41, walking in the area of Three Oaks Drive near Sligo Creek

Parkway. The officer thought White was acting suspiciously, police officials have said, and got out of his car,

followed White on foot and tried to talk to him. 

The department has not said specifically what White was doing that drew the officer's attention. 

Video recordings of the encounter were captured by body cameras worn by Badgujar and a second officer who

came to his assistance. That footage, police said, is expected to be released this week after police commanders

meet with White's family members. 

The fatal shooting was one of two by Montgomery County police officers in a span of six weeks. 

On July 23, SWAT team member Edward Cochran fatally shot a 30-year-old man who had barricaded himself and

his 3-year-old son in a bedroom and allegedly began lighting fires inside as the boy could be heard screaming. 

The 1,300-member force, just north of the District, had one such fatal shooting from 2015 to 2017. 

So far this year,The Washington Posthas documented 584 fatal shootings by police nationwide. The rate is similar

to totals in 2015, 2016 and 2017 tracked by The Post. 

After the two fatal shootings in Montgomery this year, both officers remain on administrative leave, as is

department protocol. 

The June 11 case in Silver Spring drew concern from White's family, county residents and community activists,

who met with Montgomery police officials. An investigation into the shooting was conducted by Montgomery

detectives, who turned over their results to prosecutors in neighboring Howard County. The two Maryland

jurisdictions have a standing agreement to review each other's cases related to officer-involved shootings. 

According to earlier accounts by Montgomery officials, it was after Badgujar called out to White that White became

combative and assaulted the officer. Badgujar got away from White, kept him in sight and called for assistance,

police said. More than a minute later, White came at the officer again, officials said, causing Badgujar to back up. 

"White knocked him down as the officer discharged his weapon," Montgomery police officials said in a June 12

news release. "White fell, got up, stood over the officer who was still on the ground, and continued to assault the

officer, at which time the officer fired additional rounds." 

The investigation by prosecutors probably covered several areas, including: What basis did the officer have to

deem White a "suspicious" person and try to speak with him? What efforts did the officer make to try to defuse and

de-escalate the encounter? Why did the officer think he was justified to shoot White and to shoot him so many

times? 

Howard County prosecutors concluded their investigation late last week. On Friday, Broccolino notified

Montgomery County Police Chief J. Thomas Manger in writing that no charges would be filed against the officer. 

The letter also indicated that Broccolino did not present the case to a grand jury. The letter did not specify why

Howard officials concluded that the Montgomery officer's actions were justified. 

The letter released Monday by Montgomery County officials stated: 

"On June 11, 2018, pursuant to the agreement between this office and the office of the state's attorney for

Montgomery County, this office was contacted and advised that a police officer involved shooting occurred in the

9200 block of Three Oaks Drive, in which Mr. Robert White was fatally shot. 

"Two of our senior prosecutors were assigned to this investigation and began to collect evidence regarding the

circumstances of Mr. White's death. The prosecutors reviewed the video footage of the incident between Officer

Badgujar and Mr. Robert White, including the body camera video footage from both Officer Badgujar and the

backup officer. This office has reviewed all available witness statements, witness interviews, and crime scene

photographs, including the photographs and video taken by witnesses at the scene of the shooting. 

"Further, we spoke to the investigating detectives, officers with the education and training divisions of the

Montgomery County Police Department and the Howard County Police Department who are experts in police

training, including the use of force. Officer Badgujar, through his attorney, Morgan Blackledge, has responded to

questions the investigating prosecutors posed to him. 

"After reviewing all the pertinent evidence, and after a thorough review of the law, by myself and the members of

our senior staff, we have, unanimously, concluded that Officer Badgujar's actions were justified under the

circumstances. As a result, no further action will be taken by this office." 

dan.morse@washpost.com 

Criminal investigations; Attorneys; Assaults; Deadly force

Publication title:

The Washington Post; Washington, D.C.

Credit: Dan Morse 
 
 


 
md. officer fired at least 8 rounds 

Montgomery continuing internal investigation 

The three-minute video, recorded from a camera attached to a police officer's chest, begins calmly. 

In the middle of an afternoon, the officer walks down a pathway and onto a residential street in Montgomery

County. About 40 feet ahead of Officer Anand Badgujar is a man seen from the back walking in the same direction. 

"Hey, big man," Badgujar calls out, according to the body-camera footage made public for the first time

Wednesday. "You need to stop." 

retreated down the pathway. 

Things turned chaotic. The man suddenly rushed toward the officer as the officer drew his gun. "Do it! Do it!" the

man yelled. The officer spun around, ran onto a yard and steadied himself. The man came at him again, then

The encounter that followed stretched along several blocks, with the two men sometimes close, sometimes

keeping their distance before ending in one of at least 33 fatal police shootings of unarmed people in the country

this year. It prompted a criminal investigation of the officer, which ended last week when Howard County

prosecutors, who were reviewing the case, cleared him of wrongdoing. 

Among other factors, they concluded, Robert Lawrence White, 41, pushed the officer to the ground at the end of

their encounter and gained control over him with a real threat to take his gun and kill him. The officer fired at least

eight rounds in the final seconds. 

video. "It's pretty clear who the aggressor was." 

"The tape is quite revealing," Howard County State's Attorney Dario Broccolino said, referring to the body-camera

"I do not want to shoot you!" the officer can be heard saying three different times. At least 21 times, White can be

heard shouting, "Do it!" After being shot the first time, White fell, got up and yelled, "Do it again!" 

The footage showed the men changing directions around Three Oaks Drive, a street that cuts between townhouses

about a mile from downtown Silver Spring. White charged toward the officer at least three times, prompting

Badgujar at various times to pull out his pepper-spray canister, police baton and handgun. 

All the while, he stayed in contact over the radio. "He's got his hands in his pocket," Badgujar said, "might be a

suicide-by-cop-type thing." 

Montgomery County police will continue an internal investigation that is expected to examine several issues,

including whether Badgujar had a constitutional basis to try to stop White, activated his body-worn camera

promptly, properly tried to de-escalate the rising tensions and was justified in firing his gun. 

"Police officers are expected to investigate suspicious activity. It's just part of our job," said Montgomery Police

Chief J. Thomas Manger, who also serves as president of the nationwide Major Cities Chiefs Association. "That

suspicion has to have a constitutional basis and needs to be based on behaviors and actions, not race or

ethnicity." 

White was African American. Badgujar is of Indian descent. He remains on administrative leave. 

Manger declined to speak specifically about Badgujar's assessment of White as suspicious, saying it will be part of

his department's broader internal investigation. "We will determine if Officer Badgujar acted within all of the

department's rules and policies," Manger said. 

The fatality was one of more than 590 fatal shootings by police officers this year, according to a database

compiled by The Washington Post. Most of those killed were armed, including 324 people with a gun and 101

people with a knife, according to the totals. 

It also was one of two fatal shootings by Montgomery County officers in a span of six weeks. On July 23, SWAT

team member Edward Cochran shot a 30-year-old man who had been armed with a knife and had barricaded

himself and his 3-year-old son in a bedroom. The man allegedly began lighting fires inside as the boy could be

heard screaming. In the previous three years, the 1,300-member force had one fatal police shooting. 

In general, a critical part of determining if a shooting was justified - and all the rounds were justified - is whether

the officer perceived imminent threat of death or serious bodily harm. 

"It must be objectively reasonable perception," said Geoffrey Alpert, a criminologist at the University of South

Carolina, "which requires dissecting the event to understand what the officer knew, and how and when he knew it." 

Badgujar had earlier worked for the Baltimore City police and joined the Montgomery force about two years ago.

The afternoon of June 11, Badgujar, 32, had just cleared an unrelated call for service when he noticed a man

walking along Three Oaks with a large rip in the back of his jacket, according to his attorney, Morgan Blackledge.

That was not suspicious enough for a stop, she said, but it was enough to prompt Badgujar to look at White as he

Blackledge said her client then saw White move his right hand into his front right pocket, as if he were armed or

trying to conceal contraband. He saw White turn his left shoulder, as if to conceal the right side of his body,

drove past him. 

Blackledge said. 

"The easier thing to do would have been to just ride on by," said Broccolino, the prosecutor. "But this was a police

officer doing his job, seeing something suspicious." 

As the top prosecutor in Howard County, his office reviewed the Montgomery County police investigation into the

shooting. The two Maryland jurisdictions have a standing agreement to review each other's cases related to

officer-involved shootings. 

Merely observing a person put his hand in and out of his pocket, turn his body or make a sudden movement might

not have been enough for a proper stop, said David Felsen, a longtime criminal defense attorney in Montgomery

County and an instructor at American University's law school. 

"An officer is allowed to have suspicions. But it's got to be more than a hunch," Felsen said. "This sounds like a

hunch. All you really have is a guy acting weird." 

Still, the unpredictable scenes encountered by officers, Felsen noted, are evident in the case with White. 

According to the video, after Badgujar called out, "Hey, big man, you need to stop," White wheeled around and came

after him, getting so close that the officer turned to run to create distance between the two. 

"That was clearly an assault," Felsen said. "And at that point, the officer now had probable cause to arrest him." 

The officer followed White, adding a more detailed description into his radio for backup officers on the way. 

As captured on the video, a civilian appeared in front of the officer as White walked by her. She stood next to a

parked car with an open back door and appeared to be putting a baby in or out of a car seat. 

White turned back toward the officer. 

"Get in your car and stop following me!" he shouted. "If you're going to do it . . . do it!" 

Badgujar veered, shielding himself behind another car, with his gun drawn. White reversed direction, walking past

the SUV again as the woman could be seen darting off with the baby in her arms. 

A distant siren signaled the pending arrival of the first backup officer. Badgujar jogged around White to get to the

idling police cruiser and reached in to shut off the engine. 

"Do it!" White yelled, his right hand appearing to go into his pocket. White looked to his rear, seeing the arrival of

the second officer. 

"Face shot!" White said as Badgujar backed away. 

White suddenly closed in on Badgujar, striking him as the officer fell backward and fired one round. 

"Ahh!" White yelled, falling from an apparent leg wound but getting back up. 

White closed in on the officer again, his hands on Badgujar's shoulders. 

Badgujar fired two more rounds as White swung at him and threw two punches. 

At least five more rounds are fired by Badgujar, the burst of gunfire so rapid that it is difficult to hear precisely how

many before White falls away, rolls on his back and is motionless on the pavement. 

dan.morse@washpost.com 

Credit: Dan Morse 
 
 


 
The Montgomery County Police Department has cleared a patrol officer of wrongdoing in the fatal shooting of a

41-year-old man in Silver Spring last summer, the officer's lawyer said, while some lawmakers and officials have

continued to question why the man was stopped and whether the officer was slow to activate his body camera.  

The findings of the department's internal investigation, which examined whether Officer Anand Badgujar followed

police department policies, follow conclusions last summer by Howard County prosecutors, who cleared Badgujar

of any criminal wrongdoing.  

according to police officials.  

The officer, who was placed on administrative leave following the June 11 shooting of Robert Lawrence White,

returned to active duty on Sept. 8 and by the end of the year was back on the road with the patrol division,

Badgujar was informed this week of the internal investigation's findings, said his attorney, Morgan Leigh. He was

not disciplined or reprimanded by the department, nor should he have been, she added. "He is pleased and

Her statements were confirmed, in part, by a memorandum released by police officials Wednesday that described

relieved," Leigh said.  

key findings in the internal investigation. 

justified," the officials concluded. 

confidential under Maryland law.  

"The facts and circumstances of the encounter . . . demonstrate that the use of deadly force was lawful and

A police spokesman declined to discuss details of the internal investigation saying such investigations are

Body-camera recordings of the encounter, released by police last year, showed White charging and assaulting the

officer in a parking lot before the officer fired at least eight rounds. 

Montgomery residents have questioned the shooting and why Badgujar stopped White. 

Badgujar did not activate his body camera until after spotting White, following him in his patrol car, getting out of

his car and then following him on foot. 

White, several elected officials said. 

That makes it difficult to independently evaluate whether the officer's stated suspicions were enough to stop

In an interview Wednesday, County Executive Marc Elrich (D) said the department should alter its policies to

require officers to activate body cameras earlier, when they are about to potentially engage with citizens. 

Under current department policy, officers are required to activate the cameras for a variety of duties, including "all

enforcement and investigation related citizen contacts." The policy allows officers to delay activating cameras

until "the first reasonable opportunity" if it would be "unsafe, impossible or impractical" to do so. 

"I can't say there was something suspicious," Elrich said. "I can't say there wasn't anything suspicious, but I don't

think it's possible to reach a conclusion based on one party's testimony when the camera footage isn't available." 

According to Badgujar's attorney, the officer said that as he drove near White —who was on foot —he saw White

quickly put a hand in his pocket, walk away from the officer's car and turn his body as if to hide what he was doing.

The officer said he followed White, got out of his patrol car and called on White to stop because the officer

intended to frisk him to see whether he had a weapon, the lawyer said. 

White did not have a gun, but a folding knife that he did not show during the exchange later was found in his

pocket. 

retired last week.  

Elrich said a policy on body cameras should reflect the need to capture as much of an encounter as possible and

that a policy change would factor into his decision over who will succeed Police Chief J. Thomas Manger, who

"What ought to come out of this, the moment you decide you are going to question somebody, the camera goes on

—including when you are in the car," Elrich said. 

The cameras used by county police have a standby mode set to capture the 30 seconds of video before an officer

activates the body camera. 

previous minutes of video and audio. 

On Thursday, a spokeswoman for Axon, the maker of the cameras, said the feature can be set to capture up to two

Badgujar activated his body camera within department guidelines, according to Leigh. 

Council member Will Jawando (D-At Large), who has introduced a bill to require independent law enforcement

investigators to ­review Montgomery's police-involved deaths, said he believes White was racially profiled. 

The officer is of Indian descent. White was African American. 

"I understand he charged the officer, but we have to ask: Did that interaction have to happen? Why wasn't the

camera on sooner? Why did you pursue him in the first place?" Jawando said. "It's a tragedy that we have someone

Leigh said her client has always been able to articulate what led him to make the stop and that it had nothing to do

dead and nothing's going to happen." 

with White's race. 

dan.morse@washpost.com 

jennifer.barrios@washpost.com 
 
 


 
Montgomery police find lawful use of lethal force, no breach of policy 

The Montgomery County Police Department has cleared a patrol officer of wrongdoing in the fatal shooting of a

41-year-old man in Silver Spring last summer, the officer's lawyer said, while some lawmakers and officials have

continued to question why the man was stopped and whether the officer was slow to activate his body camera.  

The findings of the department's internal investigation, which examined whether Officer Anand Badgujar followed

police department policies, follow conclusions last summer by Howard County prosecutors, who cleared Badgujar

of any criminal wrongdoing.  

according to police officials.  

The officer, who was placed on administrative leave following the June 11 shooting of Robert Lawrence White,

returned to active duty on Sept. 8 and by the end of the year was back on the road with the patrol division,

Badgujar was informed this week of the internal investigation's findings, said his attorney, Morgan Leigh. He was

not disciplined or reprimanded by the department, nor should he have been, she added. "He is pleased and

Her statements were confirmed, in part, by a memorandum released by police officials Wednesday that described

relieved," Leigh said.  

key findings in the internal investigation. 

justified," the officials concluded. 

confidential under Maryland law.  

"The facts and circumstances of the encounter . . . demonstrate that the use of deadly force was lawful and

A police spokesman declined to discuss details of the internal investigation saying such investigations are

Body-camera recordings of the encounter, released by police last year, showed White charging and assaulting the

officer in a parking lot before the officer fired at least eight rounds. 

Montgomery residents have questioned the shooting and why Badgujar stopped White. 

Badgujar did not activate his body camera until after spotting White, following him in his patrol car, getting out of

his car and then following him on foot. 

White, several elected officials said. 

That makes it difficult to independently evaluate whether the officer's stated suspicions were enough to stop

In an interview Wednesday, County Executive Marc Elrich (D) said the department should alter its policies to

require officers to activate body cameras earlier, when they are about to potentially engage with citizens. 

Under current department policy, officers are required to activate the cameras for a variety of duties, including "all

enforcement and investigation related citizen contacts." The policy allows officers to delay activating cameras

until "the first reasonable opportunity" if it would be "unsafe, impossible or impractical" to do so. 

"I can't say there was something suspicious," Elrich said. "I can't say there wasn't anything suspicious, but I don't

think it's possible to reach a conclusion based on one party's testimony when the camera footage isn't available." 

Elrich said a policy on body cameras should reflect the need to capture as much of an encounter as possible and

that a policy change would factor into his decision over who will succeed Police Chief J. Thomas Manger, who

retired last week.  

"What ought to come out of this, the moment you decide you are going to question somebody, the camera goes on

- including when you are in the car," Elrich said. 

The cameras used by county police have a standby mode set to capture the 30 seconds of video before an officer

activates the body camera. 

previous minutes of video and audio. 

On Thursday, a spokeswoman for Axon, the maker of the cameras, said the feature can be set to capture up to two

Badgujar activated his body camera within department guidelines, according to Leigh. 

Council member Will Jawando (D-At Large), who has introduced a bill to require independent law enforcement

investigators to review Montgomery's police-involved deaths, said he believes White was racially profiled. 

The officer is of Indian descent. White was African American. 

"I understand he charged the officer, but we have to ask: Did that interaction have to happen? Why wasn't the

camera on sooner? Why did you pursue him in the first place?" Jawando said. "It's a tragedy that we have someone

Leigh said her client has always been able to articulate what led him to make the stop and that it had nothing to do

Cameras; Criminal investigations; Camcorders; State laws

Publication title:

The Washington Post; Washington, D.C.

dead and nothing's going to happen." 

with White's race. 

dan.morse@washpost.com 

jennifer.barrios@washpost.com 
 
 


 
'Suspicious person' inquiry culminated in attack, shooting in Md. 

A man fatally shot by a police officer during a confrontation in Silver Spring continued his assault after the officer

had used pepper spray and fired his gun as the man ran at him, Montgomery County police said Tuesday. 

The department released more details in Monday's shooting in the parking lot of a townhouse community,

identifying the officer as Anand Badgujar and the man killed as Robert Lawrence White, 41, of Silver Spring. 

Badgujar, who was in the 9200 block of Three Oaks Drive after finishing an unrelated call, radioed for help

investigating a "suspicious person" at 2:14 p.m. Monday, police said. 

The officer attempted to speak with the man, who became combative before a physical confrontation,

Montgomery Police Chief J. Thomas Manger said. 

The officer's body-camera footage and an eyewitness account indicate that White assaulted Badgujar after the

officer tried to speak to him, police said. 

cruiser to turn off the ignition. 

Badgujar tried to pepper spray White and called for help, police said. White walked away and the officer went to his

"At this point White began approaching the officer and as he got closer, began running at the officer," Montgomery

police said in a statement Tuesday. The "officer backpedaled, and White knocked him down as the officer

White fell, got back up, stood over the officer and "continued to assault the officer," police said. Badgujar fired

White was not armed, police said Monday. His relatives could not immediately be located for interviews Tuesday. 

"According to witnesses, there was conversation that started, and he immediately became combative," Manger

discharged his weapon." 

"additional rounds" and White fell. 

said of White. 

is too early in the case to do so. 

Morgan Blackledge, an attorney representing Badgujar in the investigation, declined to comment Tuesday, saying it

The content of the conversation between the officer, who is of Indian descent, and White, an African American, was

not clear, police said. Detectives are still investigating what behavior prompted Badgujar to approach White and

why the 911 center classified the initial incident as a call for a suspicious person, said Capt. Paul Starks, a

Montgomery County police spokesman. 

gunshots, Manger said. 

The encounter had lasted about two minutes when a second officer arrived requesting medics and reporting

Officers provided first aid to White, but he was pronounced dead at a hospital, police said. 

Badgujar suffered minor injuries, which were treated at a police station, police said. 

Badgujar worked for the Baltimore police from 2011 to 2016 and left the department as a sergeant, police there

said. He has been with the Montgomery police for two years. 

Badgujar has been placed on paid administrative leave pending an investigation, which will be conducted by

prosecutors in Howard County. Montgomery and Howard counties have an agreement to review each other's cases

related to shootings by officers. 

Jana Owens, an IT contractor who was working at home Monday in her townhouse, said she heard yelling before a

burst of gunfire - anywhere from four to seven rapid bangs, she recalled. 

Owens, 63, said she walked to a balcony on her home in the Three Oaks community and saw a police officer pull up

in a cruiser and then more officers arriving. They hurried to the man who was shot and gathered around him, she

"They were pumping on his chest," Owens said. "They were saying, 'Hang on! Hang on!' " 

Magda Jean-Louis contributed to this report. 

recalled. 

•ynh.bui@washpost.com 

dan.morse@washpost.com 

Credit: Lynh Bui;Dan Morse 
 
 

MONTGOMERY COUNTY COUNCILMEMBER MARC ELRICH'S - US Fed
News (USA) - June 12, 2018
June 12, 2018 | US Fed News (USA)

ROCKVILLE, Md., June 12 -- Montgomery County issued the following City Council news release:

T oday Councilmember Marc Elrich expressed concern about the officer-involved shooting that
occurred yesterday afternoon on Three Oaks Drive in Silver Spring. Councilmember Elrich called for
"the highest level of attention and thoroughness" in the investigation of the incident.

Councilmember Elrich's full statement is below:

I received the very sad news last night regarding the loss of a life in an officer-involved shooting
yesterday in Silver Spring. T he police have released a statement and as the details of the case are
brought forward, we will have greater clarity about what happened and, more importantly, how and
why it happened.

T he family and friends of the deceased, Mr. Robert Lawrence White
Robert Lawrence White, are in my thoughts. Like
everyone I am especially concerned about an officer-involved shooting of an unarmed individual.
T his has to warrant the highest level of attention and thoroughness in the investigation and I
expect the camera footage to be released as soon as practical, given the investigation. T he family
has every right to expect access to every bit of information available as soon as possible and they
should expect an outcome where justice is served.

As the County moves forward in the investigation I want to be sure everyone understands the
process. As many have heard there is footage from both the officer's body worn camera and the
camera of the second officer to arrive on the scene, which is being reviewed. Footage of this
nature is so important in an investigation like this, which is why I was committed to supporting the
Police Chief's request for cameras for all of MCPD's sworn officers. T here were also several
witnesses at the scene who have provided their statements to the investigators. Our officers all
receive special de-escalation training in hopes of diffusing crisis situations and avoiding
confrontations that can turn deadly, as this one did. T he officer's actions in this regard will be
critically important in understanding what happened here. I anxiously await the results of the
investigation into this tragic encounter.

Once all the evidence has been gathered it will be turned over to the Howard County State's
Attorney's Office, who will then decide how to proceed with the case. T his arrangement was
agreed upon a few years ago to help ensure that there is no sense of partiality because of the
close working relationship between our State's Attorney and the Police Department. T he
Montgomery County State's Attorney's office staff work with our officers on a daily basis, which is
why it's best that a final determination be made by Howard County's State's Attorney. T hat is why
I supported this arrangement when it was proposed by the County Executive.

T he officer involved has been placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of the
investigation, which is the standard protocol with an officer-involved shooting. All camera footage
was immediately turned over to Major Crimes and it will be preserved for the investigation.
Additionally, the footage is likely to be released to the public once the initial investigation has been
completed. Part of that process will involve the family of Mr. White, who will have a chance to see
the footage before it is released to the public.

I understand the anxiety and anger that the shooting of an unarmed black man engenders. I
deeply regret that this incident occurred, and we will thoroughly examine our protocols and
procedures in the light of this tragedy.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
content.services@htlive.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 US Fed News, via HT Dig ital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved.

 
MONTGOMERY COUNTY COUNCIL EXPRESSES CONCERN ABOUT - US
Fed News (USA) - June 12, 2018
June 12, 2018 | US Fed News (USA)

ROCKVILLE, Md., June 12 -- Montgomery County issued the following City Council news release:

T oday Montgomery County Council President Hans Riemer expressed concern on behalf of the
Council about the officer-involved shooting that occurred yesterday afternoon on Three Oaks
Drive in Silver Spring that resulted in the death of Robert Lawrence White
Robert Lawrence White. According to the
Montgomery County Police, Anand Badgujar, a 3rd District patrol officer, requested assistance
while investigating "a suspicious person nearby in the 9200 block of Three Oaks Drive." A physical
altercation ensued and Mr. White, a 41-year-old African American man, was shot by the officer and
died shortly thereafter.

"I want to assure the public that all nine Councilmembers are paying close attention to the officer-
involved shooting that occurred yesterday," said Council President Hans Riemer. "We have
requested the body camera footage that is part of the ongoing investigation. Anyone with
information regarding this shooting is asked to contact the Major Crimes Division and may remain
anonymous."

Police Chief Manger and investigative personnel have reviewed the body-worn camera footage of
the shooting and report that Officer Badgujar tried to talk with Mr. White and, once Mr. White
became combative, Officer Badgujar attempted to subdue him with pepper spray prior to the
shooting.

Following Montgomery County Police Department protocol, the Major Crimes Division will
investigate the shooting and turn their findings over to the Office of the State's Attorney for
Howard County. In an effort to ensure neutrality when investigating officer-involved shooting
cases, the Montgomery County Police Department has an established agreement with the Office
of the State's Attorney for Howard County to review the findings of the Major Crimes Division.

T he Internal Affairs Division of the Montgomery County Police Department will also conduct a
personnel investigation to see if there was any officer misconduct in this case.

T he Major Crimes Division of the Montgomery County Police Department can be reached at 240-
773-5070.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
content.services@htlive.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 US Fed News, via HT Dig ital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved.

 
CAIR Condemns Fatal Police-Shooting of Unarmed - Targeted News
Service (USA) - June 12, 2018
June 12, 2018 | Targeted News Service (USA) | Press Releases

BALT IMORE, Maryland, June 12 -- T he Council on American-Islamic Relations issued the following
news release:

T he Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), the nation's largest Muslim civil rights and
advocacy organization, today condemned the police-involved shooting of an unarmed Maryland
man and called for a thorough and independent investigation into the circumstances that led to the
man's death.

T he victim, 41-year-old Robert Lawrence White
County Police officer Anand Badgujar.

Robert Lawrence White, was fatally shot yesterday by Montgomery

SEE: Montgomery County police officer fatally shoots man in Silver Spring
(https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/montgomery-county-police-at-scene-of-
police-involved-shooting-in-silver-spring/2018/06/11/c902d5ae-6dad-11e8-afd5-
778aca903bbe_story.html)

"Communities of color nationwide have long been disproportionately impacted by police-involved
shootings," said CAIR Director of Maryland Outreach Zainab Chaudry. "We condemn the death of
yet another unarmed African-American man in Maryland and extend our condolences to Mr.
White's family as we demand a full, transparent and independent investigation."

Later this evening, a protest cosponsored by SURJ Montgomery County, Montgomery County Civil
Rights Coalition and other groups is planned to be held at the Veterans Plaza in Silver Spring.

Earlier this year, CAIR spearheaded a historic rally against racially motivated police shootings in
which Muslim communities and allies gathered in Baltimore to demand justice for Stephon Clark -
an unarmed 22-year-old father of two who was shot 20 times and killed by police in Sacramento,
Calif., on March 18.

SEE: Muslims In Baltimore Rally Against Fatal Shooting Of Stephon Clark By Sacramento Police

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=AyodYZLmZkI

T hat event - cosponsored by the Islamic Council of North America - Council for Social Justice
(ICNA-CJS), MPOWER Change, Muslim American Society (MAS), and Muslim Social Services Agency
(MSSA) - was designed to raise awareness, galvanize communities and issue specific calls to action
to address the crisis of police-involved shootings in minority communities.

CAIR is America's largest Muslim civil liberties and advocacy organization. Its mission is to enhance

understanding of Islam, protect civil rights, promote justice, and empower American Muslims.

MST RUCK-6327631 MST RUCK

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Targeted News Service. All rights reserved.

 

 
A Montgomery County police officer's actions were legally justified when he repeatedly and fatally shot an

unarmed man who attacked him in a Silver Spring parking lot last month, according to prosecutors who reviewed

the encounter. 

"We have, unanimously, concluded that [the officer's] actions were justified under the circumstances," Howard

County State's Attorney Dario J. Broccolino wrote in a brief letter, released Monday, stating that he was closing the

case, which had been transferred to his jurisdiction. 

The officer, Anand Badgujar, a two-year Montgomery County veteran, was driving his police car the afternoon of

June 11 when he saw Robert Lawrence White, 41, walking in the area of Three Oaks Drive near Sligo Creek

Parkway. The officer thought White was acting suspiciously, police officials have said, and got out of his car,

followed White on foot and tried to talk to him. 

The department has not said specifically what White was doing that drew the officer's attention. 

Video recordings of the encounter were captured by body cameras worn by Badgujar and a second officer who

came to his assistance. That footage, police said, is expected to be released this week after police commanders

meet with White's family members. 

The fatal shooting was one of two by Montgomery County police officers in a span of six weeks. 

On July 23, SWAT team member Edward Cochran fatally shot a 30-year-old man who had barricaded himself and

his 3-year-old son in a bedroom and allegedly began lighting fires inside as the boy could be heard screaming. 

The 1,300-member force, just north of the District, had one such fatal shooting from 2015 to 2017. 

So far this year,The Washington Posthas documented 584 fatal shootings by police nationwide. The rate is similar

to totals in 2015, 2016 and 2017 tracked by The Post. 

After the two fatal shootings in Montgomery this year, both officers remain on administrative leave, as is

department protocol. 

The June 11 case in Silver Spring drew concern from White's family, county residents and community activists,

who met with Montgomery police officials. An investigation into the shooting was conducted by Montgomery

detectives, who turned over their results to prosecutors in neighboring Howard County. The two Maryland

jurisdictions have a standing agreement to review each other's cases related to officer-involved shootings. 

According to earlier accounts by Montgomery officials, it was after Badgujar called out to White that White became

combative and assaulted the officer. Badgujar got away from White, kept him in sight and called for assistance,

police said. More than a minute later, White came at the officer again, officials said, causing Badgujar to back up. 

"White knocked him down as the officer discharged his weapon," Montgomery police officials said in a June 12

news release. "White fell, got up, stood over the officer who was still on the ground, and continued to assault the

officer, at which time the officer fired additional rounds." 

The investigation by prosecutors probably covered several areas, including: What basis did the officer have to

deem White a "suspicious" person and try to speak with him? What efforts did the officer make to try to defuse and

de-escalate the encounter? Why did the officer think he was justified to shoot White and to shoot him so many

times? 

Howard County prosecutors concluded their investigation late last week. On Friday, Broccolino notified

Montgomery County Police Chief J. Thomas Manger in writing that no charges would be filed against the officer. 

The letter also indicated that Broccolino did not present the case to a grand jury. The letter did not specify why

Howard officials concluded that the Montgomery officer's actions were justified. 

The letter released Monday by Montgomery County officials stated: 

"On June 11, 2018, pursuant to the agreement between this office and the office of the state's attorney for

Montgomery County, this office was contacted and advised that a police officer involved shooting occurred in the

9200 block of Three Oaks Drive, in which Mr. Robert White was fatally shot. 

"Two of our senior prosecutors were assigned to this investigation and began to collect evidence regarding the

circumstances of Mr. White's death. The prosecutors reviewed the video footage of the incident between Officer

Badgujar and Mr. Robert White, including the body camera video footage from both Officer Badgujar and the

backup officer. This office has reviewed all available witness statements, witness interviews, and crime scene

photographs, including the photographs and video taken by witnesses at the scene of the shooting. 

"Further, we spoke to the investigating detectives, officers with the education and training divisions of the

Montgomery County Police Department and the Howard County Police Department who are experts in police

training, including the use of force. Officer Badgujar, through his attorney, Morgan Blackledge, has responded to

questions the investigating prosecutors posed to him. 

"After reviewing all the pertinent evidence, and after a thorough review of the law, by myself and the members of

our senior staff, we have, unanimously, concluded that Officer Badgujar's actions were justified under the

circumstances. As a result, no further action will be taken by this office." 

dan.morse@washpost.com 

Credit: By Dan Morse 
 
 


 
In the 18 months leading up to his death, Robert Lawrence White struggled to overcome his father's passing,

squabbles over a family home, and intense feelings of loneliness. 

White, described as quick-witted and funny, often walked the streets of Silver Spring, Maryland, to escape the

chaos that clouded his mind. 

afternoon. 

White's last stroll on June 11 ended in a confrontation with a Montgomery County police officer, during which he

was shot and killed. More than a week after the incident, questions remain about what transpired that Monday

Though representatives of the Montgomery County Police Department (MCPD) say White, 41, assaulted Officer

Amand Badgujar, close friends, citing reports from witnesses, said they believe Badgujar provoked White. 

"Anyone who's talked to Rob in the last couple of years would always say they've seen him walking around random

places. It's like 'Where's Waldo?'" Marvin Whitfield, White's friend of 35 years, told The Washington Informer. 

Whitfield said when he first heard about the shooting, he didn't know White was involved until the next day when

their mutual friend sent a screenshot of the deceased's photo followed by "Say it isn't so!" 

Police say Badgujar, a two-year veteran, engaged White on 2:15 p.m. as part of an investigation into suspicious

activity on the 9200 block of Three Oaks Drive in Silver Spring. In response to what was described as White's

combative disposition, the officer pepper-sprayed White who then ran toward Badgujar and knocked him down. 

Bodycam footage, MCPD said, shows White assaulting Badgujar and Badgujar shooting White. The latter received

treatment on the scene before being pronounced dead at a local hospital. 

As the investigation of the shooting, coordinated by MCPD and the Howard County State Attorney's Office, gets

underway, Whitfield and others say they want the release of video that shows the entirety of the deadly quarrel. 

"Something has been in lost in our society when we look at people, see exactly what they're going through, and

instead of getting to the root of the matter, we label them as crazy, confused, or mentally ill," said Whitfield, 40, an

Adelphi, Maryland, resident. "Rob liked walking and it was because of his loneliness. When you get to a point where

you got a house you don't want to live in, that should be explored." 

White's death prompted a candlelight vigil and calls for public officials to address police-community relations.

While he didn't form any conclusions about MCPD's involvement, Montgomery County Councilman Craig Rice (D-

District 2) said in a carefully worded Facebook post Thursday he has questions about attempted de-escalation and

proper use of force. 

Last week, dozens of activists and community organizers converged on downtown Silver Spring to protest the

shooting and demand the release of the bodycam footage. 

Supporters of Brandy Brooks, an at-large candidate for the county council, was among the members of the crowd

in downtown Silver Spring's spacious Veterans Plaza along Ellsworth Drive. She, too, expressed her concern about

protocol around how police officers engage suspects enduring trauma, and equitable access to mental health

services. 

Informer in a written statement. 

"We have so much work to do when it comes to police-community relations, especially for communities of color,

immigrant communities, and residents with disabilities or with mental health needs," Brooks, a Democrat, told The

For the full version of the story, go to washingtoninformer.com. 
 
 


 
After informal agreement in 2015, counties aim to disclose more to public 

In 2015, the state's attorneys in Montgomery and Howard counties came to an agreement: Following best

practices, the two jurisdictions would review each other's police-involved deaths to determine whether the officer

acted lawfully. 

Four years later, they're going to write it down. 

Montgomery County state's attorney John McCarthy and his newly elected counterpart in Howard, Rich Gibson,

this week plan to sign what had been a handshake agreement up to this point. 

The formalized agreement now will include provisions aimed at disclosing more information about how they

arrived at their findings. Public criticism of the process had mounted last year after the Howard County state's

attorney's office issued a one-page letter in July stating it was not pursuing criminal charges against the officer

who fatally shot an African American man, Robert Lawrence White, in Silver Spring last summer - leaving some in

the community with questions about the case. 

Now, under the new agreement, whenever prosecutors review a death caused by police, they must issue a written

report detailing their investigation and why they decided to either press charges or take no action. 

While that report itself wouldn't be public, the agreement allows for the state's attorney in the county where the

death occurred to use the report to speak about the case. It also calls for the prosecutor's office that reviewed the

case to be available to talk to the public about how the decision was reached.  

"If there's a press conference or public meeting, the investigating entity will be present to help shed light on

questions that may be asked," said Gibson, who drafted the agreement after taking office in January. 

"It is important to be able to stand behind the choices that we make, and it's important to be able to explain to the

community," he said. "There are some people who are never going to accept a given outcome, but you should be

able to communicate with some level of transparency when appropriate." 

McCarthy said the new agreement will "allow us to provide detailed answers to fair questions asked by the public." 

He pointed to a March 19 report produced by two Howard County prosecutors detailing their review of January's

fatal shooting of an armed bank robbery suspect in Silver Spring who had said he had a bomb in his backpack. 

The eight-page report, which has not been made public, included a lengthy list of the evidence prosecutors

reviewed - including witness interviews, forensics, autopsy reports, detectives' notes and the officers' body-camera

footage - and concluded with a three-page summary of the facts. Prosecutors found that shooting to be justified. 

"There's much more detailed information in it now," said McCarthy, adding that future reports would be modeled off

this template. "I think if the public then begins to say, who did you talk to, what did you do, and you wanted to know

more of the details of the specifics of what was done, this spells it out." 

The original agreement between the two state's attorneys offices was an effort, in part, to increase transparency

surrounding police actions and ensure prosecutors weren't too close to the officers they were investigating. 

Having outside prosecutors examine fatal police shootings was one of the recommendations made in 2015 by

President Barack Obama's Task Force on 21st Century Policing. Using independent prosecutors would

"demonstrate the transparency to the public that can lead to mutual trust between community and law

enforcement," the report said. 

The following month, Montgomery and Howard became the first in the state to create such a pact. 

In the last four years, Montgomery - which, at 1.1 million people, has more than three times the population of

Howard - has investigated two deaths in Howard, while Howard has investigated six deaths and one nonfatal

police shooting in Montgomery. 

"Having an outside jurisdiction, Howard County, evaluating the police of Montgomery County . . . affords a level of

distance which would preserve fairness and hopefully trust in the investigation," Gibson said. 

But Montgomery County Council Member Will Jawando (D-At Large), who took office in December, called the

written agreement "insufficient." 

"I think it's a mistake, and it falls short on transparency goals if you don't release the report," he said. 

In January, Jawando introduced a bill that would require an outside law enforcement agency to also conduct the

initial investigation into any fatal police shooting that occurs in Montgomery. Around 20 people spoke about the

bill at a public hearing last month, with many supporting the idea and asking for even more provisions - civilian

investigators instead of law enforcement or mandating an outside look at excessive force complaints. 

Jawando's bill, sponsored by the rest of the nine-member, all-Democratic council, would require the county

executive to enter into an agreement with another law-enforcement agency to lead the investigation. 

Jawando said the county would be the first in the state to have independent police investigations - another

recommendation from the Obama task force on policing. 

"The ultimate goal here is to build trust between police and the community," he said. "That's why an independent

investigation is so important." 

unworkable. 

But the county executive and the former police chief both have expressed concerns that the legislation would be

One issue the committee wrestled with is how to require the county executive to enter into an agreement with

another jurisdiction because the executive has no legal authority to require an outside agency to sign up. 

It's not the first time that county officials have considered outside police investigations. The same year the two

state's attorneys' offices began their agreement, then-Chief J. Thomas Manger looked into having another law

enforcement agency - not Montgomery officers - investigate the county's fatal police shootings. He explained to

the council at the time that it was about "public perception, public trust." 

But last month, Manger (who has since retired) told the council's public safety committee, which was deliberating

over Jawando's bill, that he couldn't find one that would be interested in the role - and he had his doubts that one

could be found now. 

Howard County's police chief said her county attorney had advised her against such a partnership, Manger said,

while her investigators said they didn't have the capacity to take on Montgomery investigations.  

The bill will come before the council's public safety committee again on April 12. 

Several officials, including Manger, the county executive and Montgomery's and Howard's state's attorneys, have

argued that a statewide investigative bureau would be a better option than ad hoc arrangements between two

Legislation that would require outside investigations statewide was introduced in the General Assembly this

"I think the statewide option is the best option down the line," Jawando said at the committee meeting. "I think like

we do in many areas, here in Montgomery County, we can lead and show how it can be done in a cooperative way." 

agencies.  

session but has not advanced. 

jennifer.barrios@washpost.com 
 
 


 
ANNAPOLIS - Four former and current Prince Georges County police officers request state lawmakers draft

legislation for stronger police reforms through transparency and accountability. 

Those officers - Joe Perez, Sonya L. Zollicoffer, Michael Brown and Thomas Boone - appeared Thursday, March 21

before the Legislative Black Caucus of Maryland in 

Annapolis. They are also part of an ongoing lawsuit with other current and former county officers against the

Police Department for alleged discrimination against Black and Latino officers and residents. 

"This has been going on for years," said Joe Perez, a 20-year police veteran. "To keep the same [police]

administration, all you are doing is condoning this type of behavior. We need your help." 

For instance, Perez said tougher rules should be incorporated in reference to the states law enforcement officers'

bill of rights. 

document. 

According to the document, "a law enforcement agency may not bring administrative charges against... [an] officer

unless the agency files the charges within one year after the act that gives rise to the charges..." 

However, the one-year limitation doesn't apply to criminal activity or excessive force offenses, according to the

In addition, at least a dozen other states incorporate this bill of rights, also called LEOBoR, which has a provision

where an officer isn't interrogated for 10 days "until representation is obtained." 

While questioned, an officer may receive "personal necessities and rest periods as reasonably necessary." 

"It's an additional protection the state of Maryland gives [an officer]," Perez said. 

Jennifer Donelan, spokeswoman for the Prince George's Police Department, advised residents to view the

department's Facebook page for coverage of various press conferences. One includes a video posted March 7

about an officer indicted for assault. 

"I would love to comment, but due to the ongoing litigation against us, we are unable to discuss this matter," she

said. "We have gone on record in the last two years about efforts we have made and continue to make to get

concerns from officers, if they have them, so they can be addressed." 

Del. Gabriel Acevero (D-Mont-gomery County) introduced a bill to create a citizen complaint process that would

require law enforcement to share information and documentation from current and previous police-involved

incidents. The bill, named after Anton Black, a Black teenager from Caroline County who died in September while in

police custody, remains under review by the House Judiciary Committee. 

In June, Montgomery County police fatally shot Robert Lawrence White, 41, an unarmed Black man from Silver

"We talk often about the blue wall of silence," Acevero said. "I see this as a more holistic conversation about how

we reform and make our police departments more transparent and accountable. 

They are among the most unaccountable public institutions not just in our state, but in this country." 

Del. Erek Barron (D-District 24) of MtcheUville said the Black Caucus will support legislation that ensures

"It's not just about Black or brown police officers, but this is also about public transparency and accountability," he

Spring. 

community safety. 

said. 

 
 


 
The police-involved shooting death of Silver Spring, Maryland, resident Robert Lawrence White last summer, and

the events that followed, brought to light fears of Black Montgomery County residents who question the county

police departments capacity to be honest about its shortcomings. 

Later this month, a bill introduced by Montgomery County Council member Will Jawando (D-At Large) that

addresses this issue will make its way to the council's public safety committee. 

If passed, the Law Enforcement Trust and Transparency (LETT) Act will mandate an independent investigation of

police-involved shooting deaths in Montgomery County and the release of a report in cases where an officer didn't

receive charges. 

County Council. 

"Now we're tasked with how to move forward, learning from these incidents and turning a moment of anger,

confusion, and frustration into an opportunity to make positive change in how we administer justice," Jawando

said in January as he introduced the LETT Act, his first piece of legislation in his role, before the Montgomery

Currently, as part of an agreement between Montgomery County and Howard County, the latter's prosecutorial

team will investigate criminal matters involving the former's police department, and vice versa. Under the LETT Act,

however, two independent investigators, both of which must be employed by a local, state, or federal agency,

would take the lead on those types of cases. The findings of any state attorney's report absolving officers of

wrongdoing must fulfill the tenets of the Maryland Public Information Act. 

Co-sponsors of the LETT Act include Montgomery Council President Nancy Navarro (D-District 4) and Council

members Gabe Albornoz (D-At large), Craig Rice (D-District 2), and Hans Riemer (D-At large). Organizations that

have expressed support for this legislation include the Montgomery County chapters of the NAACP and American

Civil Liberties Union, and Mothers of Black Boys United for Social Change. 

"We've already taken a leadership step in this council with prosecutorial shares with Howard County," Jawando

said during the Jan. 15 legislative meeting. "This is another way we can lead in Montgomery County for our

community members to feel safe and our officers to do their jobs." 

In June, Montgomery County Police Officer Anand Badgujar shot and killed White, 41, on the 9200 block of Tree

Oaks Drive in Silver Spring during an investigation into suspicious activity. 

In the aftermath of White's death, Badgujar, who had been with the department for two years at that point, went on

paid leave and Howard County officials launched an investigation. That process took three months with what

advocates described as little evidence supporting the state attorney's decision. 

Marvin Whitfield, White's friend of 35 years, counted among the group of people and organizations that converged

on the Montgomery County Council building in Rockville during a March 6 press conference. Though he said he

remains hopeful in LETT's passage, he expressed a desire that the bill remain intact and potent. 

"We're living on the outskirts of the nation's capital and we're not as progressive as them. There's a tide of change

and people won't stop until it changes," said Whitfield, a Prince George's County resident and human resources

professional. "I hope the bill doesn't get muddled down. We're here because of what we want with the independent

council and greater transparency. It's about humanizing people - Rob wasn't some thug or a crazy man trying to

beat up cops." 

Sidebar 

The police-involved shooting death of Silver Spring, Maryland, resident Robert Lawrence White last summer, and

the events that followed, brought to light fears of Black Montgomery County residents who question the county

police department's capacity to be honest about its shortcomings. 
 
 


 
ANNAPOLIS - A Maryland delegate has introduced a bill to enact new standards of transparency in investigations

of police-involved fatalities after a pair of high-profile deaths of two African-American men last year. 

HB 1011, or "Anton's Law" - introduced by Del. Gabriel Acev-ero (D-Montgomery) and named after Anton Black, a

Black teen who died in September while in police custody in Caroline County - would create a uniform citizen

complaint process with the Maryland Police Training and Standards Commission, a sub-agency of the Public

Safety and Correctional Services. 

In Acevero's Montgomery County, Robert Lawrence White, an unarmed 41-year-old African-American man in Silver

Spring, was shot dead by a county police officer in June. The officer was cleared of any wrongdoing. 

"While the Commission is required to share with complainants the results of citizen-initiated complaints, there is

currently no requirement that the Commission share any documentation related to the investigation, or even

whether prior complaints may have been lodged against the officers implicated in such investigations," Acevero

said in a press release. 

The bill had its first hearing Tuesday in Annapolis, with more than 30 co-sponsors in the Maryland House, primarily

from Baltimore City, Montgomery and Prince Georges counties, along with Del. Sheree Sample-Hughes (D-

Dorchester and Wicomico), the lone member of the Eastern Shore delegation in support of the legislation. 

After introductory remarks from Acevero urging a "favorable report" on the bill, LaToya Hol-ley Blacks older sister,

shared recollections of her brother's impact within his family and community. 

Ahead of the hearing, the Maryland Chiefs of Police Association (MCPA) and Maryland Sheriffs Association

submitted a joint letter opposing the legislation. Ismael Vince Canales, president of the Maryland Fraternal of

Police, representing more than 20,000 law enforcement officers, and John Fitzgerald, chief of the Chevy Chase

Police Department and MCPA officer, testified in opposition to the bill. 

Following impassioned remarks from Del. Debra M. Davis (D-Charles County) in support of the bill, members of the

audience, including family and teenage friends of Anton Black, were asked to hold their applause 

Traveling to Annapolis from Caroline County, Christina Robinson attended the hearing with high school students

who volunteered alongside Black to complete community service projects in the small town of Greensboro, where

the public library is only open four days a week. 

In testimony submitted to the committee in support of the bill, Robinson wrote, "The lack of information in the

wake of these officer-involved incidents can contribute to tension and division within communities." Robinson

added that a lack of disclosure can "lead to speculation, conspiracy theories, distrust in the law enforcement

establishment and the legal process as a whole." 

Del. Robin L. Grammer Jr. (R) of Baltimore County expressed displeasure that after seeking information for

months, the family of Anton Black received the autopsy report and public release of body-camera footage within

three days of remarks about the incident by Republican Gov. Larry Hogan. 

Fatigued from the previous day's judiciary committee proceedings reaching into the early morning, legislators on

Tuesday expressed a bipartisan desire to review the law, encouraged by Acevero's willingness to offer

amendments. 

Republican legislators from the Eastern Shore delegation expressed a need for more information on the bill before

making a commitment of support. 

including Caroline. 

"I want to wait to take a position on this bill until after the public process and after all of the stakeholders have had

a chance to weigh in on Anton's Law," said Del. Jeff Christ (R-36), who rep-resents four counties on the Shore

Sample-Hughes said the legislation has not yet been discussed by members of the Eastern Shore delegation at

their weekly Friday caucus meetings, but hopefully would be discussed at this week's meeting. 
 
 


 
Montgomery County's Law Enforcement Trust and Transparency (LETT) Act, signed into law earlier this month,

comes amid tense relationships between law enforcement and Black residents, as seen in recently released body-

cam footage that shows a white officer using a racial epithet during an encounter. 

For Montgomery County Councilmember Will Jawando (D-At large), the law's architect and key proponent, the LETT

Act increases accountability in the aftermath of officer-involved shootings, and provides the opportunity for the

county's police department to build more of a trusting relationship with members of the community. 

"We still have some issues in Montgomery County," Jawando said on May 7, moments after the Montgomery

County Council unanimously approved the LETT Act, his first bill as an elected official. More than a week later,

County Executive Marc Elrich signed it into law. 

Under the LETT Act, two independent investigators employed by a local, state, or federal agency would take the

lead on cases where a civilian died during an encounter with a Montgomery County police officer. Reports finding

officers blameless in those situations must fulfill the tenets of the Freedom of Information Act. In years past,

cases of this magnitude would to go to the Howard County State Attorney's office. 

"[T]his would go in the right direction of making sure that when our police officers are involved in the death of a

resident, we have an independent investigation and that the report be made public so the community can look at

and learn from it. We have a unique opportunity with a new police chief," Jawando added. 

In a statement to The Washington Informer, Montgomery County Police Department Public Information Officer

Captain Tom Jordan said that the department supports any effort, including the LETT Act, to increase transparency

and trust within the community. 

Jawando introduced the LETT Act in January in response to concerns that the investigation of Silver Spring

resident Robert Lawrence White's death hadn't been transparent. 

Last June, Montgomery County Police Officer Anand Badgujar shot and killed White during an investigation into

suspicious activity. After three months, the Howard County State Attorney's Office absolved Badgujar of any

wrongdoing, to the chagrin of activists who said little evidence supported that outcome. 

Long before May 16, when Elrich signed it into law, the LETT Act had the support of Montgomery County Council

President Nancy Navarro (D-District 4), Councilmembers Gabe Albornoz (D-At large), Craig Rice (D-District 2), and

Hans Riemer (D-At large), the Montgomery County chapters of the NAACP and the American Civil Liberties Union,

and Mothers of Black Boys United for Social Change. 

Also among the LETT Act's most ardent advocates was Marvin Whitfield, the late White's friend of more than three

decades. For him, LETT's passage earlier in the month brought mixed feelings. 

"The reason for us having to deal with this was my brother's untimely murder. His death won't be in vain, but we

never needed to get here," said Whitfield, now a Prince George's County resident and human resources

professional. 

"Things are still going on in the community where proper policing isn't being done," he continued. "I applaud

Councilmember Jawando for this bill, but I wish we didn't need the LETT Act, and that common civility was

common. This was never intended to slam the police. They are people with families that care for them, however the

main goal is that they're here to serve and protect the community." 
 
 


Police used excessive force, shot man 20 times - Madison Courier, The
(IN) - September 29, 2018
September 29, 2018 | Madison Courier, The (IN) | Associated Press

LOUISVILLE - T he family of a man shot more than 20 times by police is suing officers, accusing
them of excessive force. T he Courier Journal reports 21-year-old Demonjhea Jordan
Demonjhea Jordan was killed in
April while fleeing a robbery. Jordan's parents say Officers Joshua Weyer, Benjamin Dean and Kody
Despain and Detective Joseph Fox used "unauthorized and unnecessary deadly force." Body
camera recordings show one officer shooting at Jordan from a half-block away, screaming "shots
fired" as they run down a sidewalk. Another begins shooting through the windshield of his cruiser. A
third shoots from the side. Lt. Aaron Crowell said "multiple sources" said Jordan shot at officers,
and the video shows the gun. Officers can "use force, in this case deadly force, to protect
themselves and others from death or serious physical injury," Police Chief Steve Conrad said in
April. Police and prosecutors declined the newspaper's request to comment on the lawsuit. Weyer,
Dean, Despain and Fox remain on administrative reassignment as the investigastion continues.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Madison Courier. All Rights Reserved.

 
Officials release name of man killed by police in - Associated Press
State Wire: Kentucky (KY) - April 25, 2018
April 25, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Kentucky (KY)

LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) — Officials have released the name of a man who was fatally shot by police in
Kentucky.

T he Jefferson County Coroner's Office said in a statement on Wednesday that 21-year-old
Demonjhea Jordan
Demonjhea Jordan of Jeffersonville, Indiana, died Tuesday from gunshot wounds at University of
Louisville Hospital.

News outlets reported the shooting happened after Louisville police located a man matching a
description released after a robbery call. Police Chief Steve Conrad said the suspect and officers
exchanged gunfire, and the suspect was hit.

Conrad said the suspect died after being taken to the hospital. Police have not identified the
officers, but said they were not injured.

T hey were placed on administrative reassignment during an investigation.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
During the pursuit of an armed robbery suspect Tuesday in Portland, one Louisville Metro Police officer took both

hands off the wheel of his moving car, grabbed his gun and shot through his windshield. 

It looked like something out of an action movie and caught the attention of cops and critics alike. Is shooting at a

suspect through a windshield an appropriate police tactic? 

Nicolai Jilek, an LMPD officer since 2007 and the president of Louisville's police union, said "you may not see it

often" but that shooting through a windshield can be a useful tactic in a life or death situation. 

"When you're in your car you've got your seatbelt on, equipment on and you have a steering wheel," Jilek said. "If

you can, you want to return fire from the car as quick as possible." 

Jilek said that while shooting through the windshield is a rarity, it is a situation that has been discussed in recent

police training in Louisville. 

"They're trying to train us to shoot through our windshield if we need to," Jilek said. "If you feel threatened and

you're in immediate danger, it can be effective. I think there has been some tactical observations and research that

shows officers are concerned with getting out of their cars safely in those situations." 

But others, such as former Madison, Wisconsin, Police Chief David Couper said the move seemed "reckless." 

Couper, a vocal advocate for law enforcement reform, said there are lots of repercussions to think about when

shooting through a windshield. 

"I've never heard of that before," Couper said. "I was led to believe that the bullet's trajectory could change or be

deflected when going through a windshield. There's also the element of shattered glass too. It sounds bizarre." 

Couper said the use of force obviously depends on the situation, but he criticized the practicality of firing through a

patrol car's windshield. He pointed out more simple measures such as rolling down a side window or taking cover

behind the vehicle before lining up a shot. 

"It sounds hazardous, but I imagine the police force would defend the decision," Couper said. "There are two things

you need to ask: Is this consistent with training or not? And was this a last-ditch method to save your life or the life

of another person." 

Portland neighborhood on Tuesday. 

The officers shot and killed Demonjhea Jordan, 21, of Jeffersonville, Indiana, after he robbed a Metro PCS in the

Lt. Aaron Crowell of the department's public integrity unit said police think Jordan also fired his weapon, citing

"multiple sources of information" that led them to that conclusion. 

He declined to say what the sources were, how many shots were fired or who fired first. It's not clear in the body

camera footage when or if the suspect fired his weapon, but a gun is visible between his legs when he is lying on

the ground wounded. 

situation. 

Jilek said the risks of a bullet going off course or shattered glass causing injuries are insignificant in a life or death

James Clarkson, the owner of the residential building near where the suspect was shot, said his tenants estimated

they heard between 15 and 20 shots. Damage was done to the apartment building he owns, including shattered

windows and broken doors. The four people inside were, thankfully, unharmed, Clarkson said. 

The officers involved in Jordan's death, including the officer who fired from behind the windshield, have been

placed on routine reassignment pending the outcome of the department's internal investigation. 

Thomas Novelly: 502-582-4465; tnovelly@courierjournal.com; Twitter: @TomNovelly. Support strong local

journalism by subscribing today: www.courier-journal.com/tomn. 
 
 


 
"Where's he shot at?" one officer can be heard asking ... 

A robbery suspect fleeing from police Tuesday was shot at more than 20 times and killed by three officers and one

detective from Louisville Metro Police's First Division, according to police body camera videos. 

The footage from three officers, played at a Wednesday news briefing, shows a brief foot pursuit by one officer,

before other officers converge on the suspect, identified as Demonjhea Jordan, 21, of Jeffersonville, Indiana. 

All three, plus a detective who was not wearing a body camera, fire their weapons at the suspect in the videos,

including one officer who shoots five times through his squad car's windshield. Jordan later died at University of

Louisville Hospital from gunshot wounds, according to Wayne Pryse, a Jefferson County deputy coroner. 

Lt. Aaron Crowell of the department's public integrity unit said police believe Jordan also fired his weapon, citing

"multiple sources of information" that lead them to that conclusion. 

He declined to specify what the sources were, how many shots were fired or who fired first. It's not clear in the

body camera footage when the suspect fired his weapon, but a gun is visible between his legs when he is lying on

the ground wounded. 

The officers were responding to a description of an armed suspect who had fled on foot from a robbery scene at a

Metro PCS store in the 2600 block of West Market St. 

neighborhood, about a mile from the Metro PCS store. 

Officer Joshua Weyer located someone matching that description in the 400 block of N. 29th St. in the Portland

Footage shows Weyer attempting to engage the person, later identified as Jordan, who appears to be holding an

object covered by what looks like a red cloth. Seconds later, the suspect flees and the red cloth falls to the ground,

but Jordan is still holding an object that police say was a handgun. 

Weyer appears to fire his weapon at Jordan about 17 times before chasing after him. 

At least two other officers and one detective then locate him further down 29th Street, just south of the

intersection with St. Xavier Street. 

Those officers, Kody Despain and Benjamin Dean, as well as Det. Joseph Fox, also fire their weapons. Crowell said

Wednesday that Jordan was struck multiple times. 

"Where's he shot at?" one officer can be heard asking in the body cam footage. 

"Everywhere. In the front, in the back, arm," another responds as they examine Jordan's bloody body to identify

wound locations. 

reassignment during the investigation. 

The department's public integrity unit is investigating and those involved have been placed on administrative

One officer appears to think he was shot in the leg, but Crowell confirmed Wednesday that no officers were shot. 

This is one of several incidents where an LMPD officer has shot a suspect in the past couple of months

—described on Tuesday as "more than normal" by LMPD Chief Steve Conrad. 

At the Wednesday press conference, Conrad defended the officers' use of deadly force, based on the preliminary

investigation. 

"Again, this is a dangerous job. We know that coming into the job," he said. "We hope and pray we never have to

use deadly force, but this is a situation where officers were confronted with deadly force and they responded in a

manner —at least based on the preliminary investigation —consistent with police, practices and training." 

Responding to whether the number of shots fired was excessive, Conrad said officers are able to "use force, in this

case deadly force, to protect themselves and others from death or serious physical injury." 

"That said, as you are firing those shots as a police officer, you are going to have to account for those shots," he

said, referring to training that instructs officers to think about what is beyond the target. 

Since 2012, the department has averaged around five such cases per year. Jordan's case marks fourth this year by

on-duty officers. 

Russell Bowman, 45, was shot and killed on April 8 after police said he was acting erratically. Body camera footage

showed him pacing in front of a Pleasure Ridge Park home with a screwdriver in his hand. 

An interaction with officers ensued, where deployed tasers didn't work correctly. Bowman then lunged at an officer,

body camera footage showed, and officers fired their weapons numerous times. 

Darcy Costello: 502-582-4834; dcostello@courier-journal.com; Twitter: @dctello. Support strong local journalism

Cameras; Criminal investigations; Robbery; Deadly force; Camcorders; Weapons

Company / organization:

Name: Twitter Inc; NAICS: 519130; Name: University of Louisville Hospital; NAICS:

by subscribing today: www.courier-journal.com/darcyc. 

"Where's he shot at?" one officer can be heard asking ... 
 
 


 
The Jefferson County Coroner's Office has identified the man shot and killed by Louisville Metro Police in Portland

on Tuesday afternoon. 

according to Deputy Coroner Wayne Pryse. 

Demonjhea Jordan, 21, of Jeffersonville, Indiana, died from gunshot wounds at University of Louisville Hospital,

Louisville officers shot and killed the man, who police said was a robbery suspect, according to Chief Steve

Conrad. The officers involved have not been identified, but further details are expected at a press conference set

for Wednesday afternoon. 

Conrad said Tuesday that the police department was notified of a robbery of a Metro PCS in the 2600 block of W.

Market Street around noon and a description of the suspect was sent out to authorities. First Division officers then

located a man matching the description in the 500 block of N. Market Street. 

The officers exchanged fire with the suspect, Conrad said, and he was struck. 

The department's public integrity unit is investigating and the officers have been placed on administrative

This is one of several incidents where an LMPD officer has shot at a suspect in the past couple of months

Darcy Costello: 502-582-4834; dcostello@courier-journal.com; Twitter: @dctello. Support strong local journalism

reassignment during the investigation, Conrad said. 

—described as "more than normal" by Conrad. 

Reporter Thomas Novelly contributed to this report. 

by subscribing today: www.courier-journal.com/darcyc. 
 
 


 
The family of a 21-year-old man, who was shot at more than 20 times by police after an alleged robbery in April, is

suing Louisville Metro Police officers in federal court for his wrongful death. 

The lawsuit claims three officers and a detective used excessive force against Demonjhea Jordan, who was shot

and killed on April 24 after police say he fled from a robbery and pointed a handgun at officers in the Portland

neighborhood. One officer fired his gun through the window of his squad car at Jordan. 

Jordan's mother and father filed the suit on Sept. 18 in Jefferson County Court, but it was ordered to be moved to

federal court on Wednesday, according to court documents. 

The suit alleges that the four men involved in the shooting —officers Joshua Weyer, Benjamin Dean and Kody

Despain, and detective Joseph Fox —"breached the duty of care by utilizing unauthorized and unnecessary deadly

force against him," according to the lawsuit. 

Body camera video released after Jordan's death shows they all fired their weapons at Jordan. 

In the video, Jordan appeared to be holding an object covered by what looked like a red cloth. When the cloth fell to

the ground, Jordan was still holding the object that police said was a handgun. 

In April, police Chief Steve Conrad said officers are able to "use force, in this case deadly force, to protect

themselves and others from death or serious physical injury." 

Lt. Aaron Crowell of the department's public integrity unit previously said police believed Jordan also fired his

weapon, citing "multiple sources of information" that lead them to that conclusion. He declined to specify what the

sources were, how many shots were fired or who fired first. It's not clear in the body camera footage when the

suspect fired his weapon, but a gun is visible between Jordan's legs when he is lying on the ground wounded. 

Weyer, Dean, Despain and Fox are still on administrative reassignment and are not patrolling the streets. The

investigation into the incident is ongoing, according to LMPD. 

The lawsuit seeks an unspecified amount for damages. 

Joshua Abner, a spokesman for the Jefferson County attorney's office, did not immediately return a request for

comment about why the case was moved into the Western District of Kentucky on Wednesday. 

Thomas Novelly: tnovelly@courierjournal.com, 502-582-4465. Support strong local journalism by subscribing

Lt. Aaron Crowell of Louisville Metro Police's public integrity unit discusses the shooting by police that left a

Body camera video shows all officers fired their weapons at Demonjhea Jordan. 

today: courier-journal.com/tomn. 

robbery suspect dead. 

Darcy Costello/Courier Journal 

Provided photo 

CREDIT: Thomas Novelly 
 
 

Review underway in police shooting of Indiana man - Daily Item, The
(Sunbury, PA) - April 28, 2018
April 28, 2018 | Daily Item, The (Sunbury, PA) | Aprile Rickert The News and Tribune

LOUISVILLE — Four Louisville Metro Police officers remain on administrative leave pending the
results of an investigation into the use of deadly force that took the life of a Jeffersonville man.
DeM onJhea Jordan, 21, was the suspect in an armed robbery at a Metro PCS store in Louisville.
DeM onJhea Jordan

He died Tuesday at University of Louisville Hospital shortly after being transported there following
an "exchange of gunfire" with police. Around 12:07 p.m. police responded to the report of a
robbery at the 2600 block of West Market Street, LMPD Lt. Aaron Crowell said during a Wednesday
news conference. A description matching Jordan's was broadcast over police radio and minutes
later, officer Joshua Weyer located Jordan at the 400 block of 29th Street.

When Weyer tried to make contact, Crowell said, Jordan fled South on 29th Street, brandishing a
handgun." Officers Benjamin Dean and Kody DeSpain and Detective Joseph Fox arrived on scene
and "exchanged gunfire with Jordan as he fled on 29th Street," Crowell said.

T he LMPD released body camera footage of the three officers who were involved in the shooting;
the fourth, a detective, is not required to wear the camera due to the nature of the work, LMPD
Police Chief Steve Conrad said during the news conference.

One video shows the first officer to arrive stop his car and get out, heading toward Jordan, who
was carrying a gun and what appears to be a red bag or item of clothing. Jordan is seen moving
away from the officer and gunshots are heard, with the officer yelling "shots fired!" Conrad said
that the cameras have a 30-second buffer before sound begins to record.

Footage from another officer's bodycam shows gunfire stopping and an officer yelling at Jordan,
who has fallen to the ground, to "put your hands up, (expletive!)" footage shows officers now close
to Jordan, standing over the bleeding man. He is conscious, but not appearing to move or resist.
T hey turn him over and put handcuffs on before checking his injuries, noting bullets in areas that
included his chest and leg, and began medical treatment. A gun was lying on the ground between
his legs.

Natalie Malone, Jordan's mother, told newsgathering partner Wave 3 her son may have made a
bad choice if he robbed the Metro PCS store, but that the police used excessive force.

"T hey gunned him down? Why so many gunshots?" she said. "And then, on top of that, you're
going to handcuff him?"

Jordan's father, Larry Jordan Jr., could not be reached by the News and Tribune on Friday. T he elder
Jordan is a board member of Community Action of Southern Indiana and the Jeffersonville Parks
Authority Board, and is a candidate for Clark County Council.

Larry Jordan has posted a message on his Facebook page, thanking everyone who has reached out
in support of him and his family.

"T his has been hard on me, to see the LMPD gunned down my son like that is unbelievable," the
post reads. "I ask all those who wish to retaliate stay calm. We will get justice!!!"

Also listed on Jordan's Facebook page were the funeral arrangements for his son: a wake 5-8:30
p.m. T uesday, May 1, at Trinity Baptist Church, 1506 Spring St., Jeffersonville; and funeral at 11 a.m.
Wednesday, May 2, at Friendship Baptist Church in Louisville, with viewing 9-10:30 a.m.

Crowell said during the news conference that DeM onJhea Jordan
say whether he or the officers fired first. Footage from one different camera shows an officer
pulling up to the scene and shoot five rounds through his car's front windshield before the vehicle
was fully stopped.

DeM onJhea Jordan did fire shots, but he could not

When asked by a reporter at the news conference if that action follows protocol, Crowell said he
couldn't speak to that.

"I'm not in a position to discuss protocol," he said. "But officers are trained to deal with a threat
with whatever tool they have at hand, depending on what the threat is."

T he incident Tuesday is the fourth officer-involved shooting in Louisville this year — all within the
past month. LMPD spokesman Dwight Mitchell said Friday that is nearly as many as there were in
all of 2017.

"T his is a dangerous job," Conrad told reporters at the news conference. "We hope we never have
to use deadly force but this is a situation where officers were faced with deadly force and they
responded in a manner — based on the preliminary investigation — consistent with policy, practice
and training."

According to the Louisville Metro Police Standard Operating Procedures, which is available on the
LMPD website, "deadly force, as with all uses of force, may not be resorted to unless other
reasonable alternatives have been clearly exhausted, would clearly be ineffective or exigent
circumstances exist," it reads.

"Deadly force is authorized in defense of oneself or another when the officer reasonably believes,
based on the facts and circumstances, that the person against whom the force is used poses an
immediate threat of death with serious injury to the officer or another person."

Under department policy, officers involved in any use-of-force situations, whether deadly force or
otherwise, are placed under paid administrative leave pending the investigation.

No officers were hit by the gunfire, but one car and one home were struck. T here were no other
injuries.

At the time of his death, Jordan was serving a one-year probation sentence for a level 6 felony of

criminal recklessness committed with a deadly weapon, and a class A misdemeanor for carrying a
handgun without a license, both in Clark County.

T he Jefferson County Coroner's office confirmed Friday that an autopsy had been performed on
Jordan the day before, but said the official results won't be confirmed for several weeks. No
information from the autopsy would be released to the public, however, while the investigation is
ongoing.

Conrad said that the three videos from body cameras do not tell the whole story of what
happened that day, and investigators will continue to interview officers and witnesses.

"Because these videos offer only a limited perspective of these events, it is imperative that we
continue and complete a thorough investigation into this matter," he said. "We owe that to the
officers, the suspect, the suspect's family and the community."

T he News and T ribune, of Jeffersonville, Indiana, is owned by CNHI, parent company of T he Daily
Item.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Daily Item / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 

SHOTS FIRED AS CAR SPED UP - Tampa Bay Times (FL) - December 31,
2018 - page 1
December 31, 2018 | Tampa Bay Times (FL) | TONY MARRERO | Page 1

As dozens of bystanders milled about in a crowded restaurant parking lot, three Lakeland police
officers drew their guns and opened fire on a stolen Chevrolet Camaro as the driver ignored their
commands and tried to pull away.

At least one round struck and killed the driver, 17-year-old Michael Jerome T aylor
Haven, sparking protests by critics who say the officers used excessive force.

M ichael Jerome Taylor of Winter

T he incident early Wednesday highlights the wide of range of policies followed by law enforcement
agencies nationwide on shooting at moving vehicles.

Investigations of the Lakeland shooting are underway, but police Chief Larry Giddens praised his
officers and said an early assessment indicates they followed department policy.

Had they been working for agencies with more restrictive policies, their actions might draw
disciplinary action, instead.

• • •

For decades, law enforcement experts and reformers have said police should avoid shooting at
moving vehicles.

“It’s not like television. You’re not going to stop the vehicle,” said Ron Martinelli, a former police
officer who now works as a forensic criminologist specializing in officer-involved shootings. “If you
wound or kill the driver, you’ve got nobody in control of the vehicle.”

In its Guiding Principles on the Use of Force, the Police Executive Research Forum, a research and
policy organization known as PERF, says law enforcement agencies should prohibit shooting at
moving vehicles “unless deadly physical force is being used against an officer or another person by
means other than the moving vehicle itself.”

T he New York Police Department adopted that policy back in 1972, and departments in Boston,
Chicago,

Cincinnati, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C., have since done the same.

But many agencies continue to give officers “much wider discretion to shoot at moving vehicles,”
the PERF report notes.

T he differences extend to the Tampa Bay area.

One of the most restrictive policies locally was adopted by the St. Petersburg Police Department.
Since 1999 or earlier, St. Petersburg has prohibited its officers from firing at moving cars unless
“the occupant of a moving vehicle poses an immediate threat with a firearm, or fires upon an
officer or another, and all other reasonable means to avoid the danger have failed.”

A string of incidents in which officers fired at people in cars — including the fatal shooting of 18-
year-old T yRon Lewis in 1996 that helped spark violence in the city — prompted then-Chief Goliath
Davis III to make the change.

T he Tampa Police Department gives officers more leeway, forbidding them from firing at vehicles
unless someone is firing a gun from the vehicle “or where the subject is using the vehicle in an
offensive manner to strike persons or other vehicles and not simply using the vehicle to evade
capture.”

T he policy of the Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office says deputies should not shoot at a moving
or occupied vehicle “unless all other reasonable means of avoiding the risk of danger have been
attempted and have failed, or there is insufficient time to attempt such alternative without
endangering the safety of the deputy or others.”

T he Pinellas County Sheriff’s Office policy says members of its force should not fire at vehicles
“unless the member reasonably believes it is necessary to do so in order to protect themselves or
others from imminent death or great bodily harm.” T he policy of the Lakeland Police Department
is identical.

T his wording encompasses the standard under state and federal laws for deciding whether law
enforcement officers are legally justified in using lethal force, including firing at a moving car,
criminologist Martinelli said. Still, an officer’s action could be deemed legal but result in disciplinary
action, as it did in 2013 when St. Petersburg police fired one officer and suspended two more for
firing on a stolen car that drove away from them.

Giddens, the Lakeland chief, has said protecting themselves and the public is what his officers were
doing when they opened fire in the crowded parking lot of the Salem’s gyro and sub shop.

• • •

Officers were called to Salem’s on Memorial Boulevard about 2:20 a.m. because a large crowd had
congregated there after leaving a nearby club, according to a Lakeland police news release.

At about 2:48 a.m., officers spotted a Camaro they suspected was stolen, approached the car and
ordered the driver to get out, according to the police account.

In a 42-second segment of video, captured by a surveillance camera, Officer Markais Neal
approaches the Camaro from the front with his gun drawn and the driver rapidly accelerates. Neal,
28, quickly backs up to get out of the car’s path and begins firing as it passes. T he Camaro strikes
one car, then two more. Neal continues to fire from behind the Camaro as it pulls away.

At the same time, two other officers behind the Camaro, Joseph Novis and Raj Patel, fire a number
of rounds toward the back of the fleeing car. Several cars that appear to be occupied are visible
beyond the Camaro.

When the Camaro stops a short distance away, a woman gets out of the passenger seat. T he
Camaro rolls slowly forward then accelerates again, crashing into a parked car and pushing it into
an adjacent wall.

Officers pulled Taylor from the car and rendered first aid until paramedics arrived. He was
pronounced dead at a hospital.

On the driver’s-side floorboard, investigators found a loaded firearm that had been reported
stolen.

At the scene, Chief Giddens said the officers fired to protect themselves and the public.

“With over 200 people, there are a lot of people that were placed in jeopardy this morning, in
harm’s way,” Giddens said.

A department news release said the driver “attempted to run over an officer who had to jump in
between two parked vehicles to avoid being hit” and put officers and the public in “immediate life-
threatening danger,” so officers “were forced to open fire.”

Officers did not know who was in the car at the time of the shootings or that a gun was present,
police spokesman Gary Gross said.

Records show Taylor has been arrested seven times since 2013 on charges including petty theft,
fleeing from police, armed carjacking and violating probation.

T he department and the State Attorney’s Office are conducting investigations. A separate internal
investigation “will review policies and procedures as well as best standards involving officer
shootings,” Gross said.

T he three officers were placed on routine paid administrative leave. Novis, 25, and Patel, 23, have
been with the department for 18 months, Neal for one year.

Once Neal was able to jump out of the way, any imminent threat to him had passed, Martinelli said.
Investigators will have to determine if the threat to others justified firing as the vehicle moved
away from the officers, Martinelli said.

T he shooting also points up a cardinal gun-safety rule, he said: Know what’s beyond your target.

“Research shows officers can only hit the target 12 to 14 percent of the time at distances of two
to 10 feet,” Martinelli said. “T hese guys are throwing rounds down range at this vehicle and the
question you would ask yourself as an investigator is who’s behind that vehicle.”

T imes senior news researcher John Martin contribute to this report. Contact Tony Marrero at

tmarrero@tampabay.com or (813) 226-3374. Follow @tmarrerotimes.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Tampa Bay Times

 
Lakeland police release video of shooting that - Ledger, The (Lakeland,
FL) - December 26, 2018
December 26, 2018 | Ledger, The (Lakeland, FL) | Gary White

LAKELAND — An early morning shooting Wednesday involving Lakeland Police Department
officers has left a Winter Haven teenager dead.

T he incident took place during a gathering of about 200 people in the parking lot of Salem's Gyros
and Subs restaurant, LPD said in a news release. LPD spokesman Gary Gross said the agency
received a call from an employee at Salem's requesting officers to clear the parking lot at 101 E.
Memorial Blvd., at the intersection with North Florida Avenue.

M ichael Jerome T aylor
M ichael Jerome T aylor, 17, of 3741 Imperial Drive in Winter Haven, died after being shot by
officers, Lakeland Police Chief Larry Giddens said.

Officers responded at 2:21 a.m. to a call from an employee at Salem's about a large crowd
gathered in the parking lot, LPD said. Officers attempted to clear the parking lot of people loitering
when Officer Raj Patel noticed a black Chevrolet Camaro that fit the description of a vehicle stolen
from Winter Haven.

T he vehicle, reported stolen to the Polk County Sheriff's Office, was parked sideways facing
southwest, an LPD news release said. As multiple officers approached the vehicle, the driver, later
identified as T aylor, attempted to flee by rapidly accelerating the car, placing officers and others in
immediate danger, LPD reported.

T he vehicle accelerated south toward Officer Markais Neal, putting him in fear for his life, and he
fired at the vehicle, the release said. Two other officers also fired at the vehicle as it accelerated
through the parking lot, striking several vehicles and a utility pole.

T he Camaro continued south, hitting another vehicle and propelling it into the wall of an adjacent
business, Bike Barn. At some point during the incident, a female passenger jumped out of the
stolen vehicle and was detained, LPD said.

Officers removed Taylor from the driver's seat and immediately began first aid. A firearm was
found on the driver's side floorboard of the Camaro, LPD said.

T aylor was transported to Lakeland Regional Health Medical Center and was later declared dead.
As of Wednesday afternoon, LPD said it was unclear how many times the suspect was shot or how
many rounds the officers fired. T he Lakeland Police Department's Violent Crimes Unit and the
State Attorney's Office responded to the scene.

LPD released surveillance video Wednesday afternoon from a camera fixed at Salem's showing the
entire 42-second episode.

T aylor was on felony probation as a violent offender of special concern under the anti-murder act
for robbery with a weapon, burglary while armed, fleeing and eluding with a high-speed chase,
burglary of a conveyance and grand theft auto, LPD said. T he loaded gun found in the Camaro had
previously been reported stolen.

T he female passenger is currently in custody, according to Giddens. LPD is not identifying her
because she is a witness to a homicide.

Patel, 23, has been with LPD for 18 months and Neal, 28, for one year. A third officer, Joseph
Novis, 25, also was involved in the shooting, LPD reported. As is agency policy following officer-
involved shootings, the three have been placed on paid administrative leave for a minimum of
three days.

Crime-scene tape surrounded the parking lot Wednesday morning. Several vehicles remained in the
parking lot, and the restaurant was closed.

T he black Camaro remained in place, its front end touching the parked car that crashed into the
Bike Barn wall. Bullet holes could be seen in the rear window and the left and right rear side panels.

Salem's was the site of an incident early Thanksgiving morning in which a melee broke out and
several people were arrested. T he eatery is a regular gathering spot for people who congregate
after nightclubs close at 2 a.m., Gross said following that incident.

Gross said many of those who gather at Salem's migrate from Rumors, a nightclub at 935 E.
Memorial Blvd. in the T own Center shopping plaza, about six blocks east of Salem's. T he
restaurant is usually open until 4 a.m.

Records provided by LPD show that the agency received 203 calls for service from the vicinity of
Salem's in the past year. T he calls included narcotics violations, fights, theft, assault and battery
and a hit-and-run incident on Sept. 23.

T he records indicated LPD received 325 calls for service in the past year from the vicinity of
Rumors for things such as narcotics violations, fights, assault and battery and an episode of shots
fired on April 2.

Salem's is a small chain of restaurants based in T ampa. A woman who answered a call Wednesday
morning at the corporate office said no one was available to talk to the media.

Gross said LPD might have a discussion with Salem's management to see whether the business is
taking steps to ensure safety on its property.

"Like a lot of other businesses, they just call when it gets out of control," Gross said. "It would be up
to them if they want to hire a detail officer."

Giddens asked that anyone with information on the incident contact the Lakeland Police
Department at 863-834-6900.

Gary White can be reached at gary.white@theledger.com or 863-802-7518. Follow on T witter
@garywhite13.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Ledg er, All Rights Reserved.

 
Officer-involved shooting leaves teen dead - Destin Log, The (FL) -
December 26, 2018
December 26, 2018 | Destin Log, The (FL) | Ledger report

LAKELAND — An early morning shooting Wednesday involving Lakeland Police Department
officers has left a Winter Haven teenager dead.

T he incident took place at approximately 2 a.m. Wednesday, the Lakeland Police Department said
in a news release, during a gathering of approximately 200 people in the parking lot of Salem's
Fresh Eats restaurant at the intersection of East Memorial Boulevard and North Florida Avenue.

M ichael Jerome T aylor
M ichael Jerome T aylor, 17, of 3741 Imperial Drive in Winter Haven, died after being shot by
officers, Lakeland Police Chief Larry Giddens said.

Responding to the gathering of people, LPD officers spotted a stolen Camaro out of Winter Haven
in the parking lot, the release said. Giddens said that fact was confirmed by the Polk County
Sheriff's Office.

Giddens said as multiple officers approached the vehicle issuing verbal commands, the driver
accelerated from a parked position, "aggressively" speeding through the parking lot toward an
officer and a group of patrons who were scattering from the approaching Camaro.

Giddens called the scene "chaotic" as the officer feared for his life as well as the large group of
scattering patrons.

Officers opened fire on the vehicle, which struck multiple vehicles and a light pole, Giddens said. T he
Camaro eventually rammed into a parked car on North Florida Avenue, then continued through a
block wall and into the Bike Barn.

Giddens noted that prior to those multiple collisions, a female passenger was able to roll out of the
vehicle. T hat woman alerted authorities to the fact that a firearm may have been in the Camaro,
which was later found on the driver's floorboard.

Following the collision with the Bike Barn business, officers got Taylor out of the Camaro and
began to perform first aid. Giddens confirmed that he was later pronounced dead at Lakeland
Regional Health Medical Center.

T aylor has four previous felony arrests, ranging from burglary to grand theft auto, LPD said.

T he female passenger is currently in custody, according to Giddens. LPD is not identifying her
because she is a witness to a homicide.

T he LPD officers involved in the incident are Markais Neal, 28; Joseph Novis, 25; and Raj Patel, 23.

Neal has one year of service, while Novis and Patel each have been with LPD for 18 months.

As is LPD policy following officer-involved shootings, the three have been placed on paid
administrative leave for a minimum of three days.

LPD's Violent Crimes Unit and the State Attorney's Office responded to the scene. At this time, it is
unknown how many times the suspect was shot or how many rounds the officers fired, the release
said.

Giddens asked that anyone with information on the incident contact the Lakeland Police
Department at 863-834-6900.

T he parking lot at Salem's was the site of an incident early on Thanksgiving morning in which a
melee broke out and several people were arrested. T he eatery is a regular gathering spot for
people who congregate after night clubs close, LPD spokesman Gary Gross said following that
incident.

T his is a developing story. Check back at theledger.com for more information as it becomes
available.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Destin Log , The, All Rights Reserved.

 
Video shows teen driving at officers moments - Associated Press State
Wire: Florida (FL) - December 27, 2018
December 27, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Florida (FL)

LAKELAND, Fla. (AP) — Police in Florida have released surveillance footage showing a teen
accelerate in a stolen Camaro toward an officer moments before police fatally shot him.

T he video shows the car moving toward Lakeland police Officer Markais Neal, who has his gun
drawn. Neal and others then open fire on 17-year-old Michael Jerome T aylor
into the car.

M ichael Jerome T aylor, shooting directly

T he Camaro squeezes between several vehicles, hitting them. As officers try to stop T aylor, he
speeds away again, hitting a utility pole and another parked car.

Chief Larry Giddens says officers gave Taylor first aid after the shooting early Wednesday, but he
died at a hospital.

T he officers weren't injured, and are on administrative leave during an investigation.

T aylor's family and friends gathered at the site late Wednesday to protest the shooting.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Lakeland protesters declare: 'Not in Our - Ledger, The (Lakeland, FL) -
January 26, 2019
January 26, 2019 | Ledger, The (Lakeland, FL) | Kathy Leigh Berkowitz

LAKELAND — Hundreds of protesters chanted "Not in our generation" as men in black suits wore
red rope nooses around their necks, symbolizing black men who were hung in early American
slavery.

Exactly one month after the death of 17-year-old Michael Jerome T aylor
in Lakeland, supporters of a Rally for Justice after the Lakeland Police officer-involved shooting
gathered in downtown Lakeland to protest the shooting and call for justice. T he protest took the
form of a funeral, led by a hearse and a motorcade, while hundreds stood on the sidewalks.

M ichael Jerome Taylor at Salem's Fresh Eats

T he march made its way from Salem's Fresh Eats on Memorial Boulevard where Taylor was shot,
to the steps of the Lakeland Police Department, where the men were instructed by megaphone to
remove the nooses and lay them on the steps.

T aylor's mother, Kris Irving, who carried yellow and red roses for her son, led the group.

Promoters of the march included Young Adult Ministry, a group of Apostolic young adults from the
Church of God the Bibleway and the Poor Minority Justice Association, in addition to several family
members, friends, churches from all across the country, and others who supported the cause.

T hey marched with one goal in mind, "Justice for Mike."

After stopping at the police department, the large group made its way to Munn Park, where church
youth groups brought special music, and a church drill team performed.

A casket symbolizing all the black youths shot by police officers in the United States was brought to
the front of the proceeding in the park.

Friends hugged one another, some took phone videos, and a few hundred folding chairs were
assembled for the event.

T he Rev. Lawrence Edward led the group in prayer and the drill team followed with "We are
marching, taking our voice back," and chanting "stop, please don't shoot ... we care about our lives
and yours, too."

Young men and women took turns declaring what their futures held, "I am not Martin Luther King,"
a young girl said, "but I have a dream.''

"I want to be a photographer," one said, and another "I want to be a psychologist."

Later in the program, they held signs that read "Who killed Mike?"

T he group declared that their goal was to spread positive messages.

"Just because you have a past does not mean you don't have a future," they said.

LPD spokesman Gary Gross said adjustments were made to bring extra officers in for the day.

As for any statements on behalf of the department, Gross said Police Chief Larry Giddens stands
behind his Dec. 26 statement about the shooting and would not make any official statements
during the march because of pending litigation.

T he LPD confirmed all the officers involved in the incident at Salem's were back to work.

On Dec. 26, Taylor was shot and killed by Lakeland police officers at Salem's Fresh Eats while
allegedly accelerating the car he was driving toward officers and hitting other vehicles and the wall
of a local business. Police had been called to Salem's because of a crowd of 150 to 200 people who
had gathered after a local nightclub had closed. T he car Taylor was driving had been reported as
stolen.

Since the shooting, Lakeland Police met with Salem's corporate offices to talk about better crowd
control.

T here are now earlier hours for the dining room and only the drive-through is open later in an
effort to ease the congestion, police said.

In a phone interview with T he Ledger in late December, Taylor's mother said that she thinks her
son was scared with so many people around the car with their guns drawn, and said she needed
closure in the matter.

Irving said she felt the community's support in "countless messages and phone calls" after her
son's death. She said she had many questions as to how her son ended up driving the car, and
noted that "without excessive force, Michael would still be here today."

Kathy Leigh Berkowitz can be reached at kberkowitz@theledger.com or at 863-802-7558. Follow
her on T witter @kberkowitzthel1.

Copyrig ht 2019, The Ledg er, All Rights Reserved.

 
PCSO: Man posted mass shooting threat on Facebook - Ledger, The
(Lakeland, FL) - December 29, 2018
December 29, 2018 | Ledger, The (Lakeland, FL) | Ledger Staff

BART OW — Just hours after Michael Jerome T aylor
the car he was driving toward an officer, a friend of his posted on Facebook threats to do a mass
shooting because he said he was having a hard time processing the loss of his friend.

M ichael Jerome Taylor was shot by Lakeland Police for accelerating

According to the arrest affidavit, Polk County Sheriff's Office deputies arrested Daquan Carey, 18,
of Winter Haven, after he posted on his Facebook account, "T rapboy Quann," at 7:26 a.m.
Wednesday, "im really feeling like just loading all my guns n killing everybody bout my # sniper"
followed by emojis, and then "cant believe this ---- on god" followed by an emoji.

Deputies received information from the Winter Haven Police Department on Thursday about the
post, and met up with Carey to question him.

Carey admitted to making the post, according to the PCSO arrest affidavit, telling deputies he was
having a hard time dealing with the death of his friend, "Mike-Mike."

T he PCSO affidavit notes the post was done in such a manner that would allow another person to
view the threat, citing replies by others to the posting.

Carey is being charged with written threats to kill, do bodily injury, or conduct a mass shooting or
an act of terrorism, according to reports.

T he Sheriff's Office said Carey has a long criminal history of burglary and grand theft, and
numerous counts of violation of probation dating to 2013.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Ledg er, All Rights Reserved.

 
NAACP meets with police chief in WH teen's death - Ledger, The
(Lakeland, FL) - December 27, 2018
December 27, 2018 | Ledger, The (Lakeland, FL) | Kathy Leigh Berkowitz

LAKELAND — Community leaders from the local NAACP met with Lakeland Police Chief Larry
Giddens the day after an officer-involved shooting early Wednesday morning left a Winter Haven
teenager dead.

It was a meeting to create a conversation and understanding of the incident as social media
buzzed across Polk County after 17-year-old Michael Jerome T aylor
M ichael Jerome Taylor was fatally shot as he
endangered LPD officers and a large gathering of patrons while attempting to flee the parking lot
at Salem's Gyros & More restaurant in a stolen car.

Giddens shared with the NAACP group the issues his department is addressing in working with
Salem's, located at 101 E. Memorial Blvd., one of which is identifying where all the people come
from late at night.

Don Brown, the first vice president of the Florida State Chapter of the NAACP, told T he Ledger that
he preferred comments on the shooting come from the local chapter president, Reginald Ardis Sr.,
but added he is concerned that Salem's stays open to 4 a.m., past the closing time of a popular
nearby nightclub, Rumors. An additional concern is "controlling the crowd gathering."

"A life to me is more important than a dollar," he said.

Witness to shooting

Crowd control at Salem's seems to be a widely known problem, according to 21-year-old T omyah
Rivers of Frostproof.

She and her cousin had just arrived at Salem's after spending time at Rumors the night of the
shooting, she said.

Rivers said that when her cousin came outside after ordering food, the police had arrived, blocking
the entrance to the restaurant parking lot.

"I told him we need to leave, the police are here, and my cousin said, 'Oh, they are here all the time
because it is crowded,'" she said.

Rivers said the police were initially in a circle talking to one another, then started trying to clear the
crowd.

Her cousin hit the horn on their car, and she said "that black officer told us if you guys keep blowing
that horn, you are going to get a ticket."

Rivers said at that point, they could not pull out to get in line to leave, because there were other
cars in the way.

When the shooting began, they saw officers come from behind their car, she said.

"I got out of the car, then I noticed them shooting at the Camaro and it kept going," she said.

Her cousin shot video, and while initially sharing it on Facebook, later removed it, she noted.

"I was amazed at how many bullets went to that car. I ran after them," she said.

After the Chevrolet Camaro crashed into another car, which went into the wall of a local business,
Rivers said she could hear people crying, saying, "they are trying to kill us."

"Everybody was basically trying to get out of the way so they would not get shot by the police," she
said.

"I saw them take his body out of the car and check his pulse," Rivers said. "T hat was my first time
going to Salem's and I am never going back ... I am from Frostproof. I don't even know this boy
and I saw him die."

Review of shooting

During the tense moments leading up to the actual shooting at approximately 2:48 a.m., as
officers were clearing between 150 and 200 people from the parking lot, Officer Raj Patel noticed
one of the vehicles resembled a Camaro that had been reported stolen, according to Gary Gross,
public spokesman for LPD.

In a video released by the police department, Officer Markais Neal was in the parking lot south of
the vehicle and fired as Taylor accelerated the Camaro toward him. Two other officers also fired at
the vehicle as it continued to accelerate through the parking lot.

T he Camaro struck several vehicles and a utility pole. A female passenger jumped out of the car
and was detained.

Her name is not being released, Gross said, because she is a witness to the incident and heard
officers telling Taylor to stop the car and get out.

After she bailed out of the car, the Camaro continued, hitting another vehicle and sending it into
the exterior wall of a nearby business, Bike Barn.

T aylor was removed from the vehicle and officers performed emergency first aid. A short time
later he was pronounced dead at Lakeland Regional Health Medical Center.

Gross said the department is not sure how many times Taylor was hit nor whether he was shot
from the front or the back, or both, because the autopsy report has not been received from the

Medical Examiner's office.

Gross said although LPD has policies that prevent officers from shooting into moving vehicles, "in
this case, the officer was in fear of being hit or killed by this vehicle."

"We don't encourage it, we don't train for it," said Gross, "unless the member believes it is
necessary to protect themselves."

T he LPD Violent Crimes Unit and the State Attorney's Office were both on scene investigating the
shooting immediately. All officers involved in the incident were placed on paid administrative leave
for four days.

A firearm was located on the driver's side of the vehicle, according to Gross.

Gross said at the time the officers tried to stop the Camaro, they did not know Taylor's identity or
that he had a gun in the vehicle.

Investigation process

T hree investigations will take place, according to Gross: one is a criminal investigation, one an
administrative investigation to determine whether any policies were broken, and the independent
investigation done by the State Attorney's Office.

T he name of the girl who jumped out of the car is being withheld, though Gross said the LPD is
identifying her as an 18-year-old who did not know Taylor very well.

It was only her second time being with him, Gross said.

Other witnesses were also interviewed at the scene that support the fact that officers were trying
to get Taylor out of the car, Gross said.

"She heard numerous commands for him to get out," he said.

Gross said many on social media have questioned why the officers did not shoot out the Camaro's
tires.

"T he bullets could ricochet, and you have people all over the place," he said. "T hese officers did
what they were trained to do. (Neal) felt like his life was in imminent danger," Gross said, adding
that the only person who made the wrong decision was "that young man who was driving the car."

"He made the decision to hit the gas, and not obey a lawful command. You can always contest
that command later, he decided to hit the gas," Gross added. "T hat cost him his life. It is not a
racial thing. Some of the officers were minorities ... a very traumatic event."

Stolen gun on floorboard

According to LPD, not only was the Camaro reported stolen, but a stolen, loaded handgun was

found on the floorboard beside T aylor.

Polk County Sheriff's Office spokesperson Carrie Horstman said the PCSO worked a vehicle
burglary on July 12 in Winter Haven during which a 9 mm handgun was stolen from a resident's
2003 Chevrolet Tahoe that was parked in front of the home overnight. T he SUV was unlocked, said
Horstman.

T he stolen firearm was entered into the system, an approximate value of $300, according to
reports.

Lakeland Police reached out to the PCSO detective assigned to that case to advise they recovered
the stolen gun.

Officers involved in shooting

T he three officers identified as using their firearms during the incident were Neal, 28, who has
been with the department one year; Patel, 23, who has been with the department a year and six
months; and Joseph Novis, 25, who also has served LPD for a year and six months.

According to postings on the Lakeland Police Department Facebook page when the three were
welcomed to the department, their backgrounds varied.

Neal worked with the Highlands County Sheriff's Office for just over two years and was also a
graduate of the Polk County SWAT  School before coming to work for LPD.

Patel worked at the Polk County Sheriff's Office for a year and 10 months. A graduate of Lake
Gibson High School, he has resided in Lakeland most of his life.

Novis was born and raised in Lakeland, and also hails formerly from the Polk County Sheriff's
Office, where he served a year and 11 months.

Novis was involved in an incident in November where a couple accused Lakeland police officers of
roughing them up and falsely arresting them after a brawl that broke out in the parking lot of
Salem's around 2 a.m. Thanksgiving morning.

Five people were arrested that night, among them Raynah Wilson and her boyfriend, Van Skanes.
Skanes, 28, was charged with affray and resisting an officer without violence. Wilson was charged
with battery on a law enforcement officer.

Kathy Leigh Berkowitz can be reached at kberkowitz@theledger.com or at 863-802-7558. Follow
her on T witter @kberkowitzthel1

Copyrig ht 2018, The Ledg er, All Rights Reserved.

 
Ministers call for peace in wake of Lakeland - Ledger, The (Lakeland,
FL) - December 28, 2018
December 28, 2018 | Ledger, The (Lakeland, FL) | Kathy Leigh Berkowitz

LAKELAND — While the local chapter of the NAACP issued a statement calling for a "full review" of
the event surrounding the death of Michael Jerome T aylor
M ichael Jerome T aylor, Lakeland Police Chief Larry Giddens
joined area ministers from the Lakeland Interdenominational Ministerial Alliance at a late morning
news conference held at First Baptist Institutional Church in which the ministers called for the
community to "remain calm and not rush to judgment" until the criminal investigation is finished.

Reginald Ardis, president of the Lakeland Branch of the NAACP, said that although the NAACP does
not condone theft of another person's property or any crime, they do believe that "all law
enforcement departments should use due care in apprehending those suspected of committing a
crime.''

According to police reports, T aylor, 17, was shot Wednesday morning at Salem's Gyros & Subs
Restaurant, 101 E. Memorial Blvd., after accelerating a stolen car toward Lakeland police as they
yelled commands to step out of the car. T he Lakeland Police Department released surveillance
video of the incident.

"T he Camaro could have been blocked by a police car to help disable the vehicle," Ardis said, adding,
"Just maybe a life could have been spared. Instead, we are left wondering if all precautions were
taken by the officers involved in the shooting. Incidents of this type are happening too much to our
youth."

At Friday's news conference called by the area ministers, the Rev. Eddie Lake, Alliance president,
said at some point, the Alliance plans to hold awareness events to help young people learn how to
interact with law enforcement, but for now, they are asking anyone who was in the parking lot the
night of the shooting to provide any information they have to the police, whether it be videos,
audio recordings or statements.

"It is always a heartfelt matter," Lake said, "especially when young black males are killed in our
country, regardless of the issues. And with law enforcement involved, it adds another layer of harm
because we are not sure what happened.

"But as the investigation goes forward, we want to make sure that we support the family and the
community to make sure we keep that peace and not allow outside influences to stir up trouble in
our community."

Lake told reporters he has advice for young people.

"T he message to the youth is to listen to your parents, be educated on how to maneuver in the
community, on how to respond to law enforcement properly, and how to ask for help and

support," he said. "We stand in solidarity to ensure that every voice will be heard. With God's help,
we will make it through this together."

Giddens said the department met with Salem's corporate officers T hursday, and Salem's asked for
suggestions on how to control the late night crowds that congregate in the parking lot after 2 a.m.
when local bars close.

Suggestions offered by the police were "quickly agreed" upon, said the chief, and include Salem's
hiring extra officers for security on its property at its expense, as well as closing the restaurant
inside at 2 a.m. and using the drive-through for late-night patrons.

T he NAACP also supports calling upon both Salem's restaurant and nearby Rumor's Night Club to
provide better protection for their patrons.

"T oo often, violence in the early hours of the morning is centered at that location," noted Ardis in
his news release.

Meanwhile, protesters gathered at the Winter Haven Police Department in Winter Haven.

Giddens said protests so far have been peaceful, noting it is a way to send a message to parents
about their children.

"What we do to make a difference in these kids' lives, how we stop the next tragedy from
occurring," said Giddens.

"It's heartbreaking when you think about this," he said of the shooting, "we need to focus on this
young man and how did he get to this point in his life, and why did it happen."

T here has been some backlash against the Lakeland Police, Giddens noted.

People have made statements on Facebook, he said, cautioning the public to "be careful what they
write, especially if you are making threats against law enforcement.

Alliance ministers want to help anyone who voices concerns with the shooting or any mistreatment
they may have received the night of the shooting, Lake said.

"We want to work with all the law enforcement, State Attorney's Office and community to make
sure that there is resolve to this matter," he said.

Lake said the incident touches him deeply, because he lost a friend to violence when he was 16
years old.

"And I have buried so many youth, so many children, so many adults, that it is part of my reality as
a young man and as a pastor the last 16 or 17 years."

Kathy Leigh Berkowitz can be reached at kberkowitz@theledger.com or at 863-802-7558. Follow
her on T witter @kberkowitzthel1

Copyrig ht 2018, The Ledg er, All Rights Reserved.

 
Lakeland police release video of shooting that - News Herald, The
(Panama City, FL) - December 27, 2018
December 27, 2018 | News Herald, The (Panama City, FL) | Gary White The Ledger

LAKELAND — An early morning shooting Wednesday involving Lakeland Police Department
officers has left a Winter Haven teenager dead.

T he incident took place during a gathering of about 200 people in the parking lot of Salem's Gyros
and Subs restaurant, LPD said in a news release. LPD spokesman Gary Gross said the agency
received a call from an employee at Salem's requesting officers to clear the parking lot at 101 E.
Memorial Blvd., at the intersection with North Florida Avenue.

M ichael Jerome T aylor
M ichael Jerome T aylor, 17, of 3741 Imperial Drive in Winter Haven, died after being shot by
officers, Lakeland Police Chief Larry Giddens said.

Officers responded at 2:21 a.m. to a call from an employee at Salem's about a large crowd
gathered in the parking lot, LPD said. Officers attempted to clear the parking lot of people loitering
when Officer Raj Patel noticed a black Chevrolet Camaro that fit the description of a vehicle stolen
from Winter Haven.

T he vehicle, reported stolen to the Polk County Sheriff's Office, was parked sideways facing
southwest, an LPD news release said. As multiple officers approached the vehicle, the driver, later
identified as T aylor, attempted to flee by rapidly accelerating the car, placing officers and others in
immediate danger, LPD reported.

T he vehicle accelerated south toward Officer Markais Neal, putting him in fear for his life, and he
fired at the vehicle, the release said. Two other officers also fired at the vehicle as it accelerated
through the parking lot, striking several vehicles and a utility pole.

T he Camaro continued south, hitting another vehicle and propelling it into the wall of an adjacent
business, Bike Barn. At some point during the incident, a female passenger jumped out of the
stolen vehicle and was detained, LPD said.

Officers removed Taylor from the driver's seat and immediately began first aid. A firearm was
found on the driver's side floorboard of the Camaro, LPD said.

T aylor was transported to Lakeland Regional Health Medical Center and was later declared dead.
As of Wednesday afternoon, LPD said it was unclear how many times the suspect was shot or how
many rounds the officers fired. T he Lakeland Police Department's Violent Crimes Unit and the
State Attorney's Office responded to the scene.

LPD released surveillance video Wednesday afternoon from a camera fixed at Salem's showing the
entire 42-second episode.

T aylor was on felony probation as a violent offender of special concern under the anti-murder act
for robbery with a weapon, burglary while armed, fleeing and eluding with a high-speed chase,
burglary of a conveyance and grand theft auto, LPD said. T he loaded gun found in the Camaro had
previously been reported stolen.

T he female passenger is currently in custody, according to Giddens. LPD is not identifying her
because she is a witness to a homicide.

Patel, 23, has been with LPD for 18 months and Neal, 28, for one year. A third officer, Joseph
Novis, 25, also was involved in the shooting, LPD reported. As is agency policy following officer-
involved shootings, the three have been placed on paid administrative leave for a minimum of
three days.

Crime-scene tape surrounded the parking lot Wednesday morning. Several vehicles remained in the
parking lot, and the restaurant was closed.

T he black Camaro remained in place, its front end touching the parked car that crashed into the
Bike Barn wall. Bullet holes could be seen in the rear window and the left and right rear side panels.

Salem's was the site of an incident early Thanksgiving morning in which a melee broke out and
several people were arrested. T he eatery is a regular gathering spot for people who congregate
after nightclubs close at 2 a.m., Gross said following that incident.

Gross said many of those who gather at Salem's migrate from Rumors, a nightclub at 935 E.
Memorial Blvd. in the T own Center shopping plaza, about six blocks east of Salem's. T he
restaurant is usually open until 4 a.m.

Records provided by LPD show that the agency received 203 calls for service from the vicinity of
Salem's in the past year. T he calls included narcotics violations, fights, theft, assault and battery
and a hit-and-run incident on Sept. 23.

T he records indicated LPD received 325 calls for service in the past year from the vicinity of
Rumors for things such as narcotics violations, fights, assault and battery and an episode of shots
fired on April 2.

Salem's is a small chain of restaurants based in T ampa. A woman who answered a call Wednesday
morning at the corporate office said no one was available to talk to the media.

Gross said LPD might have a discussion with Salem's management to see whether the business is
taking steps to ensure safety on its property.

"Like a lot of other businesses, they just call when it gets out of control," Gross said. "It would be up
to them if they want to hire a detail officer."

Giddens asked that anyone with information on the incident contact the Lakeland Police
Department at 863-834-6900.

Gary White can be reached at gary.white@theledger.com or 863-802-7518. Follow on T witter
@garywhite13.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The News Herald, All Rights Reserved.

 
Florida police shoot, kill man who drove stolen - Associated Press State
Wire: Florida (FL) - December 26, 2018
December 26, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Florida (FL)

LAKELAND, Fla. (AP) — Police in central Florida fatally shot a man who they say drove at them in a
crowded parking lot.

Lakeland police Chief Larry Giddens told news outlets the Wednesday morning shooting followed
reports of a stolen car. He said officers spotted the stolen vehicle in a parking lot where some 200
people had gathered, making it a "large, chaotic scene."

Giddens said the driver saw officers approaching and "aggressively began to speed through the
parking lot, driving at one of our officers."

A few officers fired at Michael Jerome T aylor
before crashing into another parked car, pushing it through the wall of a bicycle shop.

M ichael Jerome Taylor and the vehicle hit parked cars and a light pole

T he officers weren't injured, and are on administrative leave.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Lakeland police shoot teen in stolen car By Gary - Florida Times-Union,
The (Jacksonville, FL) - December 27, 2018 - page 2,B-2
December 27, 2018 | Florida Times-Union, The (Jacksonville, FL) | Gary White | Page 2,B-2

An early morning shooting Wednesday involving Lakeland Police Department officers has left a
Winter Haven teenager dead.

T he incident took place about 2 a.m. during a gathering of about 200 people in the parking lot of
Salem's Fresh Eats restaurant. Police spokesman Gary Gross said the agency received a call from
an employee at Salem's requesting officers to clear the parking lot at 101 E. Memorial Blvd. at
North Florida Avenue.

Responding to the gathering, officers spotted a stolen Camaro out of Winter Haven in the parking
lot. Lakeland Police Chief Larry Giddens said as multiple officers approached the vehicle issuing
verbal commands, the driver accelerated from a parked position, "aggressively" speeding through
the parking lot toward an officer and a group of patrons who were scattering from the
approaching Camaro.

Giddens called the scene "chaotic" and said the officer feared for his life as well as the safety of a
large group of scattering patrons.

Officers opened fire on the vehicle, which struck multiple vehicles and a utility pole, Giddens said.
T he Camaro eventually rammed into a parked car, launching it into the neighboring Bike Barn
business, causing a hole in the exterior block wall.

Prior to those multiple collisions, a female passenger was able to roll out of the vehicle, Giddens
said. T he woman told officers that a firearm may have been in the Camaro, and the weapon was
later found on the driver's side floorboard, Giddens said.

Following the collision with the Bike Barn business, officers got Michael Jerome T aylor
Winter Haven out of the Camaro and began to perform first aid. He was pronounced dead at
Lakeland Regional Health Medical Center.

M ichael Jerome T aylor, 17, of

T aylor had four previous felony arrests, ranging from burglary to grand theft auto, police said.

T he officers involved in the incident are Markais Neal, 28; Joseph Novis, 25; and Raj Patel, 23. Neal
has one year of service, while Novis and Patel each have been with the department for 18 months.

Police had not yet determined how many times the suspect was shot or how many rounds the
officers fired.

Salem's was the site of an incident early Thanksgiving morning in which a melee broke out and
several people were arrested. T he eatery is a regular gathering spot for people who congregate

after nightclubs close at 2 a.m., Gross said following that incident.

Copyrig ht 2018 The Florida Times-Union

 



 
ATLANTA (AP) - The man suspected of killing a police officer before dying in a shooting in Georgia held extreme

anti-government views and believed that deputies had no right to step on his property, a newspaper reported. 

Tierre Guthrie, 39, was killed Friday at his home in Locust Grove, about 25 miles (45 kilometers) southeast of

Atlanta. The shootout began when Henry County sheriff's deputies came to serve a warrant for ignoring traffic

violation court dates, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation said. Locust Grove Police Officer Chase Maddox was

killed and two deputies were wounded. 

Guthrie had had previous run-ins with Henry County deputies and believed law enforcement officers didn't have

any right to enter his property, neighbor Bryant Narcisse told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution . 

Guthrie's sister, Claudette Wright, told the newspaper that she often hung up on her brother because he would

espouse beliefs about conspiracies and the government, and did so the last time they talked - about two weeks

ago. He was always talking nonsense about the government, she told the paper. 

She said she had recently learned he had been out of work for two months. 

Wright said Guthrie had been in the Marine Corps but didn't talk much about that service, but it changed him. 

Wright added she was surprised her brother's life ended as it did, saying it was "just awful." 

Information from: The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, http://www.ajc.com 

___ 

Credit: Associated Press 
 
 


 
Feb. 20--Two Henry County deputies shot during a fatal gun battle while serving an arrest warrant are both

recovering at home now, officials said. 

Deputy Michael Corley has been recuperating at home and Deputy Ralph "Sid" Callaway was released from Atlanta

Medical Center following the memorial service for Locust Grove police Officer Chase Maddox, who died in the Feb.

9 shootout. 

Hundreds attended the funeral for Maddox, a 26-year-old who was killed while assisting the Henry County

deputies. He had worked for the department for nearly five years and was the first Locust Grove officer hired

immediately after graduation from the police academy, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution previously reported. 

The GBI is investigating the shooting, which occurred at the Hawthorne at Linden Park subdivision in Locust Grove. 

The man wanted for failure to appear on a traffic violation, 39-year-old Tierre Guthrie, was killed on the scene. 

Callaway was shot just below his bulletproof vest and had emergency surgery, Henry County Sheriff Keith

McBrayer said. The man couldn't eat solid food for several days. 

Making the memorial for Maddox was important to Callaway, McBrayer said. 

Company / organization:

Name: Locust Grove; NAICS: 712110, 712120; Name: Atlanta Medical Center-Georgia;

NAICS: 622110; Name: Atlanta Journal-Constitution; NAICS: 511110

CREDIT: By Ellen Eldridge 
 
 

Hundreds mourn slain Locust Grove Officer Chase - Newnan Times-
Herald, The (GA) - February 20, 2018
February 20, 2018 | Newnan Times-Herald, The (GA) | The Newnan Times-Herald

Hundreds of residents lined both sides of the street in downtown McDonough, some holding signs
and flags, while others placed their hands over their hearts, to show their respect and gratitude for
Officer Maddox.

By Chelsea Prince - T he Henry Herald, McDonough

McDONOUGH — It was a morning of juxtaposition, the solemn ceremony befitting a police
officer's funeral set against the vibrancy and humor that characterized Chase Maddox's life.

Stories were told at the service of how Maddox never missed an opportunity to fidget and that no
supervisor's desk toy was ever safe; the colors are presented to his widow. Family remembered
Maddox's entrepreneurial spirit that got him in trouble more often than it made him money as a
kid; Taps is played. Or how Maddox, despite being the first officer hired by the Locust Grove Police
Department straight out of the academy at the tender age of 21, milked his seniority over older,
more experienced recruits; the end of watch call for unit 216, Officer Chase Maddox, is played over
a loud speaker.

Hundreds of mourners filled pews, hallways, and overflow rooms at Glen Haven Baptist Church to
honor and remember Maddox Saturday morning. More lined the roadways from Locust Grove to
the McDonough square and outside the church, standing to salute the fallen officer as local and
greater Atlanta law enforcement escorted his ashes by motorcade.

T he 26-year-old Locust Grove officer was killed Feb. 9 while assisting two Henry County sheriff's
deputies attempting to serve a warrant at a St. Francis Court home. T he two deputies, Sid Callaway
and Mike Corley, were wounded and are both recovering. Callaway has not been officially
discharged from the hospital after taking a bullet to his stomach, but it didn't stop him from
attending Maddox's memorial service in a wheelchair with ambulance team waiting.

Locust Grove Police Chief Jesse Patton struggled to maintain composure as he remembered
hearing the "officer down" call come over his police radio that day. Maddox was responding to a
request for backup when he was shot three times by 39-year-old Tierre Guthrie
T ierre Guthrie, with the fatal
shot sustained to his head. Guthrie was shot and killed at the scene, but not before rounds hit
Corley's bullet-proof vest and Callaway's abdomen.

Guthrie was wanted for failure to appear in Locust Grove Municipal Court on a city code issue.

"At the door of the residence, my worst fears were confirmed," Patton said of responding to the
scene. "As we worked, we prayed, holding back tears, anger, asking each other, 'Why?' I'm here to
tell you today, the answer to why is called evil. Evil tries to destroy good."

Maddox gave his life so that others could continue theirs, Patton said, so that evil would not win
out. "Chase Maddox is a hero."

He leaves behind a wife, Alex, and two sons. T heir youngest, Bodie Allen Maddox, was born
T uesday, four days after Maddox was killed in the line of duty. Family remembered him as a doting
father and loving husband who expressed his affection readily.

"If my love for that man could have kept him alive, he would have lived for eternity," Alex Maddox
said in a letter read by her brother, Coleton Segars. "And if the love that we've experienced today
from all of you from our community could keep him alive, he would live forever."

Segars said his sister didn't believe in soul mates before she met Chase, but she knew from the
start she would either "marry that man or he's going to be my best friend." Segars said Alex
Maddox was lucky — she got both.

"I just didn't think love like that existed, until you're holding it," Maddox said in the letter.

Family and fellow officers described Maddox as a good-humored tease who appreciated a laugh.
Lt. Matthew Long said Maddox's brand of humor was "unique," but that's what made him a perfect
fit for the Locust Grove Police Department.

He told of the time the chief called a "very green" Maddox into his office after a picture surfaced
online of Maddox in a compromising position — floating down a river in an inner tube while wearing
a Speedo, striking a very confident pose. T he same photo was shown larger-than-life in a slide
show running over two screens during the service.

Maddox was nervous he was in trouble, Long recalled. But when a stern-faced Patton used the
opportunity to poke fun at Maddox's expense, Long said Maddox knew he was at home among
the officers of the Locust Grove PD.

When it came time to get to work and focus his free-wheeling energy, Maddox was a fine police
officer, Patton said. He read out a letter of condolence from a father of a 21-year-old Warner
Robins man to whom Maddox had issued a super speeder ticket. T he father credited the officer
for the professionalism and courtesy shown to his son, who says now he respects Maddox for
helping him to change a dangerous driving habit.

T his wasn't out of the ordinary for Maddox. Patton said the officer had an "uncanny ability" to
reach reach resolutions that resulted in thanks from all parties involved.

"Chase accomplished more in five years than most officers do over their entire career," Patton
said.

Five years is too short for a young police officer's promising career. T wenty-six years is not
enough time to love a family.

Maddox's fellow officers, along with nearly a thousand more who traveled to McDonough to pay

their respects, watched on as the final rites and honors were bestowed upon Maddox and his
family. As the service drew to a close, mourners left the church to the words of Johnny Cash's
"Man in Black," a somber call to action for the men and women who will continue to protect and
serve in Maddox's place.

Ah, I'd love to wear a rainbow every day

And tell the world that everything's okay

But I'll try to carry off a little darkness on my back

Until things are brighter, I'm the Man In Black

Copyrig ht 2018 The Newnan Times-Herald, Inc, All Rights Reserved.

 
Injured Henry deputy shares life lessons with 2018 - Newton Citizen,
The (GA) - May 27, 2018
May 27, 2018 | Newton Citizen, The (GA) | Beth Slaughter Sextonbethslaughtersexton@gmail.com

ST OCKBRIDGE — As he lay there on the floor of the house that day — in and out of
consciousness, blood draining from his body where the bullet tore through him — in those
moments hovering between life and death, he clearly remembers telling God, "I'm good either
way."

Henry County Deputy Ralph Sidwell "Sid" Callaway and his partner Deputy Michael D. Corley were
just doing their duty Feb. 9, serving an arrest warrant to a man who had failed to appear in court on
traffic violations. T he man had reportedly been cited for illegally parking a commercial vehicle, and
photos of his house on Feb. 9 show a big rig truck parked in the driveway.

Soon after they arrived, the deputies suspected trouble, according to Callaway. T hey quickly
realized the man was not going to cooperate. Callaway said the perpetrator was becoming verbally
combative and his behavior was escalating toward a confrontation. T he deputies called for back-
up.

Locust Grove Police Officer Chase Maddox responded, and within minutes arrived on the scene.

T he deputies were at the house on St. Francis Court in the Hawthorne at Linden Park subdivision in
Locust Grove to arrest Tierre Guthrie

T ierre Guthrie, who was charged with not showing up in court.

In earlier published reports, Henry County Sheriff Keith McBrayer said the deputies were there with
a warrant involving city citations that Guthrie could have cleared up by paying a fine. T he deputies
stood in Guthrie's doorway trying to reason with him, but he refused to cooperate. T he sheriff said
Guthrie made it clear he was not going anywhere with anybody.

Neighbors said it sounded like firecrackers going off in the house on St. Francis Court.

"T here was a lot that happened in a short period of time," Callaway remembers. "It was a physical
fight, a gun fight and so forth."

Reports state Guthrie retreated up some stairs in the house, produced a gun and fired it. Corley
was hit in the vest. Callaway was hit just below his vest in his stomach. Maddox was struck three
times, according to GBI reports. T he 26-year-old officer was killed by a gunshot to the head.
Guthrie was also killed.

Callaway, who is still recovering from his injuries, recently spoke at the baccalaureate service for
the 2018 graduating class at Community Christian School on Jodeco Road in Stockbridge. He
shared with them a little about what happened that day and encouraged the young men and
women to be prepared for the future, have a relationship with Jesus Christ and to make their lives

count for something.

"On Feb. 9, in just a few seconds, my life came to a sudden halt," he told the students. "Everything
would change. Everything would be different. My whole perspective on things would be different.
When the shooting was over, all of a sudden I realized I was hurt pretty bad. I was laying on the
floor. I couldn't breathe. I couldn't open my eyes anymore. Without being told, I knew I was pretty
bad off."

Callaway said that as a long time member of law enforcement, he had experienced trouble before,
but nothing like what happened that day on St. Francis Court. He had experienced sports injuries
time and again and had even fought cancer, but he said this was much more serious.

"I was laying there and I told God, I said, 'God, I'm good either way because I know where I'm
going. I know where I'm going.' I knew if that would have been it, that time, that day, I would be all
right. So it pays to be ready because you don't ever know. A few seconds is a short period of time.
It blows my mind how short a period of time that is."

A long-time Christian and serious athlete, Callaway told the graduates it pays to be ready spiritually,
mentally, emotionally and physically.

"Eat right, sleep right, exercise, play, stay on top of things," he told them. "You've got to keep
yourselves ready. Your body's got to carry you a long way, hopefully. T he doctors told my family
and me that if I had not been in the physical condition I was in, I would not have made it."

Callaway said he was in "very, very good shape" on Feb. 9. He loved to exercise and regularly wrote
out daily exercise plans for himself, but said that morning, an interesting thing happened.

"When my clock went off like it does every day at 4:00, I got up," he said. "I don't hesitate about it, I
don't think about it, I just get up. But I did start thinking about the workout I had written for that
morning. I said — and I don't know why I said this — but said, 'If for some reason I was told this
morning that I wouldn't get to work out for a long time and I was going to get way out of shape,
would I still do this workout today?' My answer to myself was 'Yes,' so I did it and didn't think about
it anymore."

Another interesting thing happened that morning for Callaway, who said his routine when he was
on duty was always the same. After getting up and exercising, he would shower, get dressed and
unload his weapon before practicing drawing his gun a few times. He would load it back up and
leave for work. T hat is what he always did. But on Feb. 9, he did everything as usual, got dressed
and was almost out the door before he realized he had forgotten to practice drawing his weapon.

"I thought to myself that I don't have to do this every day and I don't need to practice today," he
said. "But then all of a sudden I thought today might be the day. I don't know why. God was so
gracious to help me get ready. I unloaded my weapon, practiced and went on about my business."

He used that experience to tell the students they need to have some "non-negotiables" in life.

"You have to make decisions," he said. "You can't give excuses. I try to live with purpose on

purpose. John Piper (a Christian author) said, 'We live in a dream world of insignificance expanding
into nothingness.' And that's because we don't make decisions. We don't do things. We just want
to sit around and play games all the time. You've got to sit around and play games some of the
time, but not all the time. You've got to be strong to the finish. T here's a whole world out there
needing you, wanting you and got to have you. I've got to have you out there making a
difference."

Callaway has sought to make a difference since he was a senior at Stockbridge High School and
decided to become a Christian. He went to the University of Georgia where he majored in criminal
justice and played football for the legendary coach Vince Dooley.

After college, Callaway worked as a police officer for Athens-Clarke County before moving back to
Henry County and becoming a reserve deputy for the sheriff's department. For the past 25 years,
Callaway has been in full-time ministry with the Fellowship of Christian Athletes where he works with
coaches and athletes, hires and trains chaplains and works with college athletic programs. He said
working as a reserve deputy is also part of his ministry and service to the community where he and
his family live. T he former Sunday School teacher and his wife, LuAnn, are members of Eagle's
Landing First Baptist Church.

Callaway is proud of his son Jacob, a combat veteran of Afghanistan and a police officer for
another local Georgia city. He is also a new grandfather with the birth of his granddaughter nine
months ago. Callaway's wife and son stayed by his side throughout his hospital stay. He was taken
from the scene by helicopter to Atlanta Medical Center. Callaway praises the doctors and hospital
staff and said he wants to thank his fellow members of law enforcement, emergency personnel,
the EMT s and firefighters for their care, support and presence throughout this ordeal. He said he
is trying to track them all down to thank them. He also wants to thank members of the community
for their phone calls, gifts and other expressions of concern and support.

He said God is using this experience to open some new doors for him and giving him an
opportunity to talk to people about his faith.

T he deputy becomes emotional talking about Maddox and Corley. He did not know Maddox prior
to that day. T he young man was a husband and father of a son with another child on the way when
he was killed.

"He was a true warrior," Callaway said. "We couldn't have asked for better help, and I don't even
like to talk about it sometimes, but it was such a tragedy that a young man lost his life. I have a son
in his age range. He was a true warrior, very brave, a true hero."

Callaway was determined to attend the funeral for Maddox and convinced doctors to let him leave
the hospital early. He was taken by ambulance and law enforcement escort to the funeral and then
escorted to his Henry County home where he continues to recuperate and regain his strength.

As for Corley, Callaway remembers that even after his partner was shot and wounded, he tried to
pull Callaway out of the house to safety. When Callaway said he couldn't move any more, Corley
stood over him, protecting him.

"I am very thankful for him," Callaway said. "He's my true partner, my true brother forever."

Beth Slaughter Sexton is a freelance writer based in Walton County. Contact her at
bethslaughtersexton@gmail.com.

Copyrig ht 2018, Newtown Citizen, All Rights Reserved.

 

 
Feb. 12--DECATUR -- Preliminary results from an autopsy performed at the Georgia Bureau of Investigation Crime

Lab in Decatur indicate Locust Grove Police Department Officer Chase Maddox was shot three times last week

while serving an arrest warrant in Locust Grove. Maddox died from a gunshot to the head, according to preliminary

autopsy findings. 

A report from the deadly incident indicates Locust Grove Police Department officers and Henry County Sheriff's

Office personnel were at 1260 Saint Francis Court in Locust Grove to execute an arrest warrant on Tierre Guthrie,

39, who was wanted for failure to appear in court regarding traffic violations. 

At approximately 10:53 a.m., according to the report, HCSO Deputy Sidwell "Sid" Callaway and Deputy Mike Corley

were located at 1260 Saint Francis Court in Locust Grove for the purpose of executing the arrest warrant on

Guthrie. 

Deputies encountered Guthrie inside the residence, where Guthrie became combative and the situation escalated,

according to police reports. LGPD's Maddox arrived on the scene to assist the deputies. A fight ensued, resulting in

Guthrie and the officers firing their weapons. Guthrie was shot and died at the scene. 

Both Callaway and Corley were wounded in the gunfire exchange and taken to Atlanta Medical Center. Corley was

shot in his protective vest. He was treated and released. Callaway was shot in the lower abdomen, but hospital

officials say he is now in stable condition. 

Maddox died after being transported to Atlanta Medical Center. 

The GBI said in a release that an autopsy was also performed on Guthrie. Preliminary results indicate Guthrie was

Company / organization:

Name: Locust Grove; NAICS: 712110, 712120; Name: Atlanta Medical Center-Georgia;

NAICS: 622110; Name: Bureau of Investigation-Georgia; NAICS: 922120

shot four times, with two of those wounds to his chest. 
 
 


 
 

Enlarge this image. 

The man accused of killing a Locust Grove police officer and wounding two deputies had been served an eviction

notice nine days earlier, according to Henry County Sheriff Keith McBrayer. 

Tierre Guthrie, 39, failed to appear in court last week after being cited for illegally parking a commercial vehicle, his

arrest warrant states. He could have paid a fine and avoided going to jail, McBrayer told Channel 2 Action News. 

Instead, Guthrie spoke to deputies in language used by sovereign citizens, or those who don’t believe they have to

abide by government regulations, McBride said. Guthrie shot the deputies and Maddox, who later died. Deputies

returned fire and shot Guthrie, who died at the scene. 

Credit: Alexis Stevens, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution 
 
 


 
Jan. 26--Nearly a year after surviving a shooting that killed a police officer, a Henry County deputy is back in the

hospital because of medical complications, Channel 2 Action News reported. 

Deputy Ralph Sidwell "Sid" Callaway was one of the three law enforcement officers shot on Feb. 9, 2018, while

attempting to arrest a man who failed to appear for a traffic violation, AJC.com previously reported. Deputy

Michael Corley survived as well, but Locust Grove police Officer Chase Maddox died in the shootout, which also

killed 39-year-old suspect Tierre Guthrie. 

Callaway was hit just below his bulletproof vest and needed emergency surgery, but he entered surgery again

Friday at Atlanta Medical Center after scar tissue caused a blockage, his wife told Channel 2. 

"I've never seen anyone in that much pain -- never," Luann Callaway, his wife, said. "We really thought it was over." 

Atlanta Medical Center is the same hospital Sid Callaway was flown to after being shot in February. Luann

Callaway said he had been in a different hospital for the past week because of the complications. 

RELATED: Second Henry Co. deputy heads home after shooting that killed Chase Maddox 

He was transferred so the surgeon who helped treat him last year can try to help him again, she told the news

station. 

Luann Callaway said. 

"He's so brave. He's the bravest man I've ever known, of course, next to Chase Maddox and so many of our military"

Maddox, 26, died four days before his wife delivered their second child, AJC.com previously reported. Hundreds of

people, including law enforcement officers from across Georgia, attended his funeral on Feb. 17, 2018. 

Luann Callaway, who is a trauma counselor, told Channel 2 the past year has been incredibly hard on her and her

husband, but their Christian faith has helped sustain them. 

"I'm asking for prayer -- we're not bitter," she said. "That's what we're depending on." 

She said her husband is a reserve deputy and his full-time job is with the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. 

In other news: 

CREDIT: By Zachary Hansen 
 
 


 
LOCUST GROVE, Ga. (AP) - The Latest on the killing of a police officer in Georgia in a shootout that also claimed

the life of the suspect (all times local): 

Authorities in Georgia say the police officer killed in a shootout with a criminal suspect died of a gunshot wound to

The Georgia Bureau of Investigation said in a statement that preliminary results of an autopsy performed Saturday

on Locust Grove Police Officer Chase Maddox at the crime lab in Decatur indicate he was shot three times, with the

The suspect, 39-year-old Tierre Guthrie, also died. An autopsy showed that he was shot four times, with two

Gunfire broke out as the officers were serving an arrest warrant Friday morning at a home in Locust Grove, about

40 miles (65 kilometers) southeast of Atlanta. Guthrie was wanted for failing to appear in court for traffic

3:30 p.m. 

the head. 

fatal wound being to the head. 

wounds to the chest. 

violations, the GBI said. 

__ 

Georgia town in shock. 

The killing of a police officer and wounding of two deputies in a sudden, unexpected burst of gunfire has left a

The fallen officer's wife is expecting the couple's second baby. And the town's mayor broke down as he spoke

about the officer and his family hours after Friday morning's shooting. 

Authorities said two deputies were wounded in Friday morning's shooting, and a suspect was killed. 

Henry County Sheriff Keith McBrayer said the gunfire broke out as the officers tried to serve an arrest warrant

around 11 a.m. at a home in Locust Grove, about 40 miles (65 kilometers) southeast of Atlanta. 

Credit: Associated Press 
 
 


 
LOCUST GROVE, Ga. - As police tried to serve an arrest warrant at a home outside of Atlanta, the criminal suspect

became combative and both sides started shooting, resulting in the death of an officer and the suspect, authorities

Locust Grove Police Officer Chase Maddox died of a gunshot wound to the head Friday, the Georgia Bureau of

Investigation said in a statement, citing results of an autopsy conducted Saturday. The autopsy showed Maddox,

The suspect, Tierre Guthrie, 39, also died. An autopsy showed that he was shot four times, with two wounds to the

Two Henry County sheriff's deputies were wounded. One was released from the hospital and a second was in

26, had been shot three times. 

said. 

chest. 

stable condition. 

Gunfire broke out as the officers were serving an arrest warrant at Guthrie's home in Locust Grove, about 40 miles

southeast of Atlanta, the GBI said. Guthrie was wanted for failing to appear in court for traffic violations. 

"Guthrie became combative and escalated the situation," the agency said. The deputies called Locust Grove police

for backup, and Maddox arrived within minutes. "A fight ensued resulting in Guthrie and the officers firing their

weapons," the GBI said. 

Henry County Sheriff Keith McBrayer wouldn't say who fired first. 

residents of this city of about 6,000 people in shock. 

The fallen officer's wife is expecting the couple's second baby. 

The death of Maddox, who had been with the department since he was 22, and the deputies' wounding, have left

"We just need a lot of prayers for (him) and his wife and the baby that's coming into this world without a daddy

because of somebody ..." Locust Grove Mayor Robert Price said, choking up during an interview. 

The GBI identified the wounded deputies as Michael D. Corley and Ralph Sidwell "Sid" Callaway. Bureau

spokeswoman Nelly Miles said Corley had been released from the hospital and Callaway was in stable condition

Friday night after surgery. 

Guthrie's neighbor said that he was a father of three young boys and a U.S. Marine Corps veteran. Dory Kissner,

who lives across the street, said she was the one who called 911. 

"I looked out the window and saw (one of the officers) running away going, 'Ouch,ouch,ouch,' and feeling himself

for wounds," Kissner said. 

She said none of the three children inside the house was injured. 

Credit: JEFF MARTIN The Associated Press 
 
 


 
It was a bittersweet day of welcoming a new life while grieving one taken too soon. Four days after Chase Maddox

was gunned down as he helped serve a warrant, the Locust Grove police officer's wife delivered a baby boy on

Tuesday. 

The newborn, named Bodie, is the couple's second child, and the grieving Henry County community did its part to

show a widow and her two boys how much they are loved. Contributions for the Maddox family topped $100,000

and continued to flow in, according to police. 

"What happened can't be reversed, but out of this senseless tragedy, it is encouraging to see the love from the

entire community," Henry SheriffKeith McBrayer said in a letter posted on his department's Facebook page. 

Meanwhile, new details are emerging about what may have driven 39-year-old Tierre Guthrie to violence, including

his belief that he did not have to abide by laws. 

"They were attacked on Friday from an individual that did not respect our laws. A man that did not believe in the

law," McBrayer said. "He opposed our form of government and had no value for human life. For someone to open

fire in a house at officers when he had his own family in that same house is hard to imagine." 

Guthrie had been served eviction papers nine days earlier, McBrayer told Channel 2 Action News. But when Guthrie

failed to appear in court last week after being cited for illegally parking a commercial vehicle, deputies returned to

his St. Francis Court rental home with an arrest warrant. Deputies spoke with Guthrie for roughly 10 minutes before

calling for backup assistance, McBrayer said. 

"It was made clear he had no intention of going anywhere with anybody," McBrayer said. 

Guthrie used language that implied he was a sovereign citizen, a group that believes they are exempt from

government regulations. It was Maddox who responded to the deputies'request for help. 

As deputies attempted to arrestGuthrie, hewentupthe stairs just inside the home's front door and grabbed a gun,

McBrayer said. Deputy Michael Corley was shot first, but the bullet hit his vest. 

"The witnesses that we know of said they saw him comeoutthedoorandhewas hollering and in pain and realized

that he was okay enough to go back," McBrayer said. "So he turned around and went back inside, but by the time

he had got back inside the entire incident was over. 

Guthrie also shot Deputy Sid Callaway and Maddox, who was struck three times, according to the GBI. The

Tuesday. 

(Box) 

7055. 

deputies returned fire, hitting Guthrie several times. Callaway, a law enforcement veteran serving as a reserve

deputy, was shot in the abdomen. Corley was treated and released from the hospital on Friday, while Callaway's

condition improved and he was able to move from intensive care to a regular hospital room, McBrayer said

Since Maddox's death, the communityhasrallied tohelp his family through various fundraising efforts. Donations

were being accepted at United Community banks andattheLocustGrovepolice department.A fund had also been set

up to assist Callaway with his recovery. 

Maddox's funeral will be held 11 a.m. Saturday at the Glen Haven Baptist Church in McDonough, Ga. 

HOW YOU CAN HELP THE MADDOX FAMILY: 

|Bank donations: You can drop off donations at any United Community Bank location and ask that it be deposited

into "THE MADDOX FAMILY FUND."Donations may be mailed to the local branch at 4970 Bill Gardner Parkway,

Locust Grove, GA 30248 

|Item donations: You can donate newborn and infant items at the Locust Grove Public Safety Building, 3640

Highway 42, Locust Grove, GA 30248. Food donations must be coordinated through police by contacting 770-957-

|Transportation: The family is in need of a custom van for their son with special needs. Donations can be made at

the Toyota of McDonough dealership at 144 Highway 81 West, McDonough, GA 30253 or by calling 770-651-0802.

HOW YOU CAN HELP WOUNDED HENRY COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPUTY RALPH "SID"CALLAWAY: 

|A YouCaring fundraiser has been set up to help the family with expenses:

https://www.youcaring.com/ralphsidcallaway-1095319 

Company / organization:

Name: Locust Grove; NAICS: 712110, 712120; Name: Facebook Inc; NAICS: 518210,

Publication title:

The Atlanta Journal - Constitution; Atlanta, Ga.

CREDIT: Staff 
 
 


 
 

Enlarge this image. 

warrant, the GBI announced Saturday. 

At least eight gunshots were exchanged Friday inside the home of a Locust Grove man being served a search

An autopsy performed on Chase Maddox, the newlywed Locust Grove officer who arrived as back-up, found the

officer was shot three times, including the fatal shot to the head. 

The suspect, 39-year-old Tierre Guthrie, who had refused the two Henry County deputies' efforts to serve the

warrant, was shot four times, twice in the chest. 

Two Henry County sheriffs deputies were also injured in the confrontation. 

-Please return for updates on this developing story 

Credit: Christian Boone 
 
 


 
 

Enlarge this image. 

Locust Grove police officer Chase Maddox, 26, was shot and killed and Henry County sheriff’s deputies Michael D.

Corley and Ralph Sidwell “Sid” Callaway were wounded while serving an arrest warrant to Tierre Guthrie on Friday

at a home on St. Francis Court, authorities said. 

Guthrie was shot and killed. 

The arrest warrant was for failure to appear on a traffic violation, the GBI confirmed. 

IN-DEPTH: Expecting a new baby any day, a young Georgia police officer is gunned down 

WATCH: Breaking news livestream 

The GBI is investigating the shooting, which occurred at the Hawthorne at Linden Park subdivision in Locust Grove. 

After talking with Guthrie for about 10 minutes, deputies realized they would be making an arrest and would have

difficulty placing him in custody, Henry County Sheriff Keith McBrayer said. 

He did not specify what Guthrie did that made deputies decide to arrest him instead of just serving the warrant. 

“They notified radio and a Locust Grove city police officer came to be a backup for them,” he said. “(Maddox) was

there three minutes after that.” 

As they tried to make an arrest, there was an altercation inside the home, McBrayer said. That’s when the officers

and Guthrie were shot. He did not specify who shot whom and how many shots were fired. 

Stay with The Atlanta Journal-Constitution for live updates: 

8:18 p.m.: The GBI identified the suspect as 39-year-old Tierre Guthrie. 

6:13 p.m.: The suspect was renting the home from an Alabama couple, Channel 2 Action News reported. The

couple, who have a military background, have rented out the home to various people over the past few years. 

6:11 p.m.: Corley’s brother, Wade, said in his brother’s 26-year career this was his first time being shot. Michael

Corley is six years away from retirement. 

4:59 p.m.: The GBI released photos of Locust Grove police Officer Chase Maddox and Henry County sheriff’s

deputies Michael D. Corley and Ralph Sidwell “Sid” Callaway. 

------------ 

Tweet: 

------------ 

The GBI is releasing the names of the three officers in today’s Henry County shooting: Fallen Locust Grove Officer

Chase Maddox, Henry County Sheriff’s Deputies Michael D. Corley (pic 2) &Ralph Sidwell “Sid” Callaway (pic 3)

pic.twitter.com/8lIDp7bRYt 

—GA Bureau of Invest (@GBI_GA) February 9, 2018 

4:17 p.m.: One of the Henry County deputies shot while serving a warrant Friday morning has been released from

the hospital, according to Channel 2. He was wearing his bulletproof vest, which blocked the bullet. A second

deputy remains in the hospital after he was shot in the stomach. He was also wearing a vest. 

4:05 p.m.: A slain Locust Grove police officer was identified as 26-year-old Chase Maddox. He had been working for

the department since he was 22. Maddox is the only officer the department hired out of school and was described

by Locust Grove Mayor Robert Price as a “smart young man.” His wife is expecting their second child. 

3:34 p.m.: The Locust Grove police officer killed today was a five-year veteran of the department. One of the

deputies had more than 20 years of experience. 

one of his officers. 

2:23 p.m.: Snellville police Chief Roy Whitehead said one of the deputies shot in Henry County today is the father of

2:17 p.m.: Wade Corley said his brother, Henry County sheriff’s Deputy Michael Corley, was shot in the left side of

his chest and the shot penetrated his bulletproof vest. 

“They were serving a warrant and it just went south,” Wade Corley said. 

Wade Corley said he got a call saying his brother had been shot. 

was going to make it and he asked me to pray for him.” 

Michael Corley, 49, also asked to see his sons. 

“Get those boys to me as fast as you can,” he recalled his brother saying. 

“So I’m going crazy and then they pass the phone to my brother,” he said. “At the time, Michael didn’t know if he

2:07 p.m.: The man is dead, too.GBI spokeswoman Nelly Miles said authorities are trying to notify his relatives

before releasing his name. 

fair. Both are at Atlanta Medical Center. 

2:07 p.m.: One of the Henry County sheriff's deputies has serious injuries and is headed to surgery. The other is

2:06 p.m.: The Locust Grove police officer died a short time later at a hospital, the Henry County sheriff said during

a press conference. The officer’s name has not been released. 

2:06 p.m.: Henry County Sheriff Keith McBrayer said two deputies went to a home on St. Francis Court in Locust

Grove with an arrest warrant for an unidentified man about 10:53 a.m. The arrest warrant was for failure to appear

on a traffic violation, the sheriff said. 

2 p.m.: A press briefing is about to begin. 

1:55 p.m.: One of the deputies shot has been identified as Michael Corley by his brother. 

Wade Corley, pastor of Mt. Zion United Methodist Church of Griffin, spoke with reporters outside of Atlanta Medical

Center and said a bullet went through his brother’s vest and “caught him in the lungs.” 

He’s getting an MRI, the man told Channel 2. 

Wade Corley said he was calling his brother when another officer answered the call to tell him his brother was OK.

Michael Corley is the father of two sons, ages 14 and 11. They are both at the hospital, the injured man's brother

said. 

“Please just pray,” he said to reporters. “Lift these families up.” 

1:41 p.m.: Several deputies are leaving the scene where someone shot three officers. Police say the shooter is

dead and they aren't looking for any one else. Police still have the house where shooting happened cordoned off,

according to Channel 2. 

officers to the hospital. 

1:31 p.m.: More officers are arriving at Atlanta Medical Center. It appears family members just got a police escort

to the hospital. Channel 2’s Craig Lucie reports family members ran inside the hospital. 

1:28 p.m.: Hawthorne at Linden Park subdivision is still blocked off as police investigate a shooting that sent three

1:17 p.m.: Officers were serving a warrant at the time of the shooting, according to Channel 2. One of the injured

officers killed the shooter, the news station reported. 

1:12 p.m.: The status of the wounded officers is unknown. 

1:11 p.m.: “Our thoughts and prayers are with the Henry Co Sheriff's deputies and Locust Grove officer who were

shot this morning in Henry County,” the Gwinnett County Police Department said in a tweet. “We hope they survive

their injuries and make a full recovery.” 

1:04 p.m.: Three ambulances have arrived at Atlanta Medical Center with police escorts. Dozens of officers are

1:02 p.m.: There will be a 2 p.m. news conference at Henry County Fire Department Station No. 2. 

12:55 p.m.: Three children were brought out of a house in the area and taken to a neighboring residence, Channel 2

12:51 p.m.: Summit Racing Equipment store, which was evacuated because authorities suspected it was part of

the shooting scene, has been given the all-clear, Channel 2 reported. Workers are returning to the building. 

12:49 p.m.: A scene at Summit Racing Equipment on King Mill Road in McDonough is not connected to the officer-

involved shooting, according to Channel 2. 

12:49 p.m.: At least one of the officers was taken to Atlanta Medical Center. Another was taken to Piedmont Henry

there. 

reported. 

Hospital. 

12:32 p.m.: Multiple agencies, including the Henry County Sheriff’s Office, the GBI and the Locust Grove and Henry

County police departments, are investigating. An agent with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and

Explosives is also on the scene in the 1200 block of St. Francis Court in Locust Grove. 

12:27 p.m.: Locust Grove Elementary School is on lockdown. 

12:23 p.m.: Two Henry County deputies and one Locust Grove officer have been shot, the sheriff’s office told

Channel 2. Two have been flown to a local hospital. One was taken by ambulance. The man who shot them is dead,

officials said. 

12:17 p.m.: Henry County police Capt. Mike Ireland confirmed three officers were shot. 

VIEW: Map of crime in metro Atlanta 

NEW: Join the discussion at the AJC's Crime &Safety Facebook group 

Know what’s really going on with crime and public safety in your metro Atlanta community, including breaking

news, trial coverage, trends and the latest on unsolved cases.  

Credit: Lauren Foreman and Raisa Habersham, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution 
 
 


 
 

Enlarge this image. 

shootout Friday, a father. 

Tierre Guthrie was a Marine, a vegetarian, a Seventh Day Adventist and, like the officer who died in an apparent

Neighbors say Guthrie had young sons who were in the home at the time of the shooting. Guthrie didn't survive.

Neither did Chase Maddox. The young Locust Grove officer, was pronounced dead at Atlanta Medical Center after

being shot in the head. Many details of the shooting remained unclear Saturday but Maddox had apparently been

assisting two Henry County sheriffs serving Guthrie with an arrest warrant on Friday. 

Guthrie was sympathetic to the Black Nationalist movement, his Facebook posts indicated, and Guthrie wrote that

"some of my posts may offend you." 

Yet he often posted that he felt blessed. Guthrie moved to Georgia just two years from Connecticut, where he

owned a freight transport company. But his fleet consisted of only one truck and one driver. 

-Please return for updates on this developing story 

Credit: Christian Boone and Leon Stafford 
 
 


 
LOCUST GROVE, Ga. (AP) - As police tried to serve an arrest warrant at a home outside of Atlanta, the criminal

suspect became combative and both sides started shooting, resulting in the death of an officer and the suspect,

authorities said. 

26, had been shot three times. 

Locust Grove Police Officer Chase Maddox died of a gunshot wound to the head Friday, the Georgia Bureau of

Investigation said in a statement, citing results of an autopsy conducted Saturday. The autopsy showed Maddox,

The suspect, Tierre Guthrie, 39, also died. An autopsy showed that he was shot four times, with two wounds to the

Two Henry County sheriff's deputies were wounded. One was released from the hospital and a second was in

stable condition after surgery. 

Gunfire broke out as the officers were serving an arrest warrant at Guthrie's home in Locust Grove, about 40 miles

(65 kilometers) southeast of Atlanta, the GBI said. Guthrie was wanted for failing to appear in court for traffic

chest. 

violations. 

"Guthrie became combative and escalated the situation," the agency said in a statement late Friday night. The

deputies called Locust Grove police for backup, and Maddox arrived within minutes. "A fight ensued resulting in

Guthrie and the officers firing their weapons," the GBI said. 

Henry County Sheriff Keith McBrayer wouldn't say on Friday who fired first. 

The death of Maddox, who had been with the department since he was 22, and the deputies' wounding, have left

residents of this city of about 6,000 people in shock. 

The fallen officer's wife is expecting the couple's second baby. 

"We just need a lot of prayers for (him) and his wife and the baby that's coming into this world without a daddy

because of somebody ..." Locust Grove Mayor Robert Price said, choking up during an interview Friday. 

The GBI identified the wounded deputies as Michael D. Corley and Ralph Sidwell "Sid" Callaway. Bureau

spokeswoman Nelly Miles said Corley had been released from the hospital and Callaway was in stable condition

Friday night after surgery. Miles referred questions about his condition Saturday to the Henry County Sheriff's

Office, which didn't immediately respond to a telephone message. 

Guthrie's neighbor told WSB-TV that he was a father of three young boys and a U.S. Marine Corps veteran. 

Dory Kissner, who lives across the street, said she was the one who called 911. 

"I looked out the window and saw (one of the officers) running away going, 'Ouch,ouch,ouch,' and feeling himself

for wounds," Kissner said. 

She said none of the three children inside the house was injured. 

Credit: By JEFF MARTIN, Associated Press 
 
 

Family of fallen Locust Grove police officer to - Cherokee Tribune
(Canton, GA) - March 7, 2019
March 7, 2019 | Cherokee Tribune (Canton, GA) | Christine Fonville @NeighborXine

Southern Crescent Habitat for Humanity, a Habitat for Humanity affiliate, has rallied community
partners in an effort to make the home of fallen Locust Grove Police Officer, Chase Maddox, more
accessible for his son.

Southern Crescent Habitat for Humanity will partner with Team Depot on March 15th to construct
an accessibility ramp for Bradin Maddox, who has cerebral palsy which limits his mobility. Building
the ramp is the first step in Southern Crescent's extensive plan to make the Maddox home
accessible for Bradin and those who care for him.

Officer Maddox died in February of 2018. T he incident happened on St. Frances Court at about 11
a.m. when Henry County Sheriff's deputies Michael D. Corley and Ralph Sidwell "Sid" Callaway and
Locust Grove police officer Chase Maddox attempted to serve an arrest warrant on suspect
T ierre Guthrie who was also shot and killed. Maddox, 26, died after a fight ensued and shots
T ierre Guthrie
were fired at the scene.

Officer Maddox, a McDonough native, was a veteran of the National Guard. Just four days after
the fatal incident, his widow, Alex Maddox, gave birth to the couple's second son, Bodie.

"In the midst of this tragedy, we hoped that in some meaningful way we could help the family.
Gratefully, Team Depot has stepped in to fund a portion of the project to make this home barrier-
free for Bradin. We hope to receive additional funds to complete the needed accessible ramps,
bathroom modifications, and chairlift. We serve veteran-families and seniors who need these kinds
of home repair every day. We know that the community will help us meet this needs of this family
and others in South Metro Atlanta," said Southern Crescent CEO Cynthia Jenkins.

T eam Depot, T he Home Depot's associate-led volunteer program, contributed $10k in gift cards
to jumpstart the project followed by another $10k from the Home Depot Foundation. Employees
from various Home Depot stores will join Southern Crescent staff and other volunteers on the
morning of Friday, March 15th at the Maddox residence in Griffin, GA. Southern Crescent Habitat
for Humanity hopes to rally additional community partners to complete other renovations in the
home.

For more information on how to help Southern Crescent Habitat for Humanity with the Chase
Maddox project or other families, please e-mail development@schabitat.org or donate to the
GoFundMe at www.gofundme.com/thechasemaddoxproject.

Copyrig ht 2019, Cherokee Tribune. All Rights Reserved.

 

 
He was a mischievous kid with a goofy grin and a sense of humor. And Chase Lee Maddox grew up to become a

man dedicated to his family and passionate about his work in law enforcement. 

Along the way, Maddox never lost his quirky humor and zest for life, his family and fellow officers said Saturday. 

"People who encountered him experienced Heaven on Earth," said the Rev.Coleton Segars, Maddox'sbrother-in-law.

"Hejustpulled people up.He just lifted the room. Our world is broken in many ways, and Chase worked to mend it." 

Hundreds attended the funeral for Maddox, a 26-year-old Locust Grove police officer killed Feb. 9 in the line of duty.

Maddox was assisting two Henry County deputies serving an arrest warrant when he was shot, according to

investigators. 

after graduation from police academy. 

He had worked for the department for nearly five years and was the first Locust Grove officer hired immediately

Dozens of officers and deputies from across metro Atlanta and Georgia, along with a handful from other states,

paid their respects to the fallen officer by participating in a procession Saturday morning from the Locust Grove

Police Department to Glen Haven Baptist Church in McDonough. Others in the heartbroken Henry County

community lined the streets, some holding U.S. flags. At the intersection of Ga. 155 and East Lake Parkway, some

drivers exited their vehicles to stand and watch the long line of police cars with blue lights flashing. 

At the church, the main sanctuary quickly filled, and other mourners were led to other areas to watch a live-stream

of the service. It was the type of sendoff the slain officer deserved, Locust Grove police Chief Jesse Patton said. 

"What an honor it was for Chase Maddox and his family," Patton said. 

On June 17, 2013, a fresh-faced Maddox began his police work and quickly dedicated himself to becoming the best

officer he could be, Patton said. Older officers were his mentors, and later Maddox would mentor others, serving as

a field training officer. 

"He accomplished more in five years than some (officers) do in an entire career," Patton said. 

Maddox dated his future wife, Alex, for about two years before asking her father for permission to marry her,

Segars said. By then, Maddox was already a beloved member of the family. 

"He was the answers to a father's prayers for his daughter," Segar said. 

Maddox adored his bride and quickly assumed the role of father to Alex's young son, Bradin. On Tuesday, four days

after her husband was killed, Alex Maddox delivered a second son, Bodie. Officers lined the route from Piedmont

Henry Hospital to I-75 Wednesday afternoon to escort Alex and Bodie Maddox home. 

Maddox and his wife were best friends, and the officer never missed a chance to tell her, Segars said. 

"Did I tell you how beautiful you are today?" Maddox would ask Alex, Segars said. "Did I say how much I love you

today?" 

On the morning of Feb. 9, two deputies called for assistance while attempting to serve an arrest warrant to Tierre

Guthrie. Guthrie had become combative and refused to go with the deputies. Maddox arrived at the rental home,

less than two miles from his police department, to help. Minutes later, Patton said, he heard the call that changed

everything. 

Signal 63. Officer down. Shots fired. 

"My worst fears were confirmed," Patton said. 

The two deputies, Michael Corley and Ralph "Sid" Callaway, had both been shot, along with Maddox. Somehow, the

deputies managed to shoot and kill Guthrie, who faced a fine for parking a commercial vehicle in his driveway.

Patton drove to the shooting scene, where he was told the news. 

"As we worked, we prayed, holding back tears and asking each other, 'why?'" Patton said. 

The injuries to Corley and Callaway were not life-threatening. But Maddox had been shot in the head. He died at

Atlanta Medical Center. 

soon be forgotten. 

"You are heroes," Patton said at the funeral. The injured deputies both attended Saturday's service, along with Alex

Maddox and her two sons. Patton addressed Maddox's family members personally, sharing that the officer won't

"Your father is a hero," Patton said to the boys. "He loved you more than you'll ever know." 

As "AmazingGrace"played on bagpipes filled the church, a color guard folded an American flag that was presented

"Rest in peace, Officer Chase Maddox," Patton said. "We'll take it from here." Outside, a shotgun salute honored

Maddox. Inside the quiet church, a recording played of a dispatcher calling for Maddox, Officer 216. There was no

response. Maddox's watch had ended. 

For more photos from the funeral, visit our website myAJC.com. 

Company / organization:

Name: Locust Grove; NAICS: 712110, 712120; Name: Atlanta Medical Center-Georgia;

Arrest warrants; Funerals

United States--US Georgia Atlanta Georgia

Lee, Chase

NAICS: 622110

Publication title:

The Atlanta Journal - Constitution; Atlanta, Ga.

First page:

Publication year:

B.1

2018

Publication date:

Feb 18, 2018

to the family. 

(Box) 

CREDIT: Staff 
 
 


 
The man believed responsible for killing a Locust Grove police officer may have been a member of a separatist

movement that does not recognize government authority in things like laws and taxes, the GBI said Monday. 

Tierre Guthrie could have been a so-called sovereign citizen or a member of the Nuwaubian Nation of Moors -- a

black separatist group founded in Georgia in 1970, Scott Dutton, deputy director of the GBI, told The Atlanta

Journal-Constitution. Sovereign citizens believe that governments operate illegally and that they get to decide

which laws to obey, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center, a nonprofit group which monitors hate groups

and other extremists. 

A neighbor reported that Guthrie had espoused a belief in "Moorism," a religious organization founded on the

premise that African-Americans are descended from the Moorish Empire and thus are Moors by nationality. 

"It is something we are looking out to determine which, if any (he may have been involved in)," Dutton said. "There

are strong indications he was affiliated with an anti-government group. It's one of those things where these

particular groups, until they violate the law, they are free to do what they want to do." 

On Friday morning, two Henry County deputies arrived at Guthrie's rental home on St. Francis Court in Locust

Grove to serve a warrant, according to police. Guthrie had an outstanding warrant for failure to appear in court, but

deputies had no reason to believe he was violent, Sheriff Keith McBrayer said Friday. 

Guthrie failed to appear in Locust Grove Municipal Court on Feb. 6, three days before two deputies arrived at his

home, according to his arrest warrant. On Aug. 29, he was cited for illegally parking a commercial vehicle, the

warrant states. 

On Friday, Guthrie allegedly became combative and pulled a gun, firing shots at the deputies and at Locust Grove

Officer Chase Maddox, who was called for back-up, the GBI said. It wasn't known Friday who fired first, but Guthrie,

the deputies and Maddox were all struck. Guthrie, shot four times including twice to the chest, died at the scene,

according to police. Maddox, a married father with a baby due this week, was shot in the head and died from his

injuries. He was 26. 

On Monday, the Locust Grove community and beyond rallied to help the Maddox family, with donations on one

fundraising page topping$100,000.Donations were also being accepted at the Locust Grove Police Department and

a fund was set up at United Community Bank.A Griffin printing business had already printed 3,000 decals Monday

afternoon to honor Maddox, with all of the proceeds going to the officer's family 

"If you know Locust Grove, you'd know that's how it is there," business owner Des-tin Fuller said. "Everyone is

coming together and everyone's going to have a decal on their car." 

Fuller owns Cardinal Creations Vinyl Supply and grew up in Locust Grove, where many family members and friends

still live. Fuller's husband is a Spalding County sheriff's deputy. 

After learning of Maddox's death, Fuller said her family went to work creating hundreds of "End of Watch" black

and blue decals to sell for $2 each. At a vigil Saturday night, Fuller sold out of 800 decals. And on Monday, Fuller

said family members were helping complete orders for 3,000 decals, including various law enforcement agencies

who plan to honor Maddox on their patrol cars. 

"This is what you do. You come together," Fuller said. "This is what we can do and God has given us the ability to

do that." 

CREDIT: Staff 
 
 


 
Two Henry County deputies shot during a fatal gun battle while serving an arrest warrant are both recovering at

home now, officials said. 

Deputy Ralph "Sid" Callaway was released from Atlanta Medical Center after the memorial service Saturday for

Locust Grove police Officer Chase Maddox, who died in the Feb. 9 shootout. 

Deputy Michael Corley has been recuperating at home since shortly after the shooting. 

Hundreds attended the funeral for the 26-year -old Maddox, who was killed while assisting the Henry deputies. He

had worked for the Locust Grove Police Department for nearly five years and was the first Locust Grove officer

hired immediately after graduation from the police academy, The Atlanta 

Journal-Constitution previously reported. The GBI is investigating the shooting, which occurred at the Hawthorne

at Linden Park subdivision in Locust Grove. 

The man who was wanted for failure to appear on a traffic violation, 39-year-old Tierre Guthrie, was killed on the

Callaway was shot just below his bulletproof vest and had emergency surgery, Henry County Sheriff Keith

McBrayer said. The deputy couldn't eat solid food for several days. 

Making the memorial for Maddox was important to Callaway, McBrayer said. 

scene. 

CREDIT: Staff 
 
 


 
 

Enlarge this image. 

duty. 

Contributions continued to pour in Monday afternoon for the family of a Georgia police officer killed in the line of

Locust Grove Officer Chase Lee Maddox, 26, died Friday while assisting Henry County deputies serving an arrest

warrant, according to police. Gun fire broke out and at least nine shots were fired. Maddox died after being shot in

the head, the GBI said. Tierre Guthrie, who lived in the St. Francis Court home, was also shot to death. 

A Maddox family friend created a Go Fund Me page to benefit the officer’s pregnant wife and young son. Donations

topped $100,000 by Monday afternoon. The original goal was $20,000. Donations were also being accepted at

Company / organization:

Name: Locust Grove; NAICS: 712110, 712120; Name: Twitter Inc; NAICS: 519130;

Name: Atlanta Journal-Constitution; NAICS: 511110

Publication title:

The Atlanta Journal - Constitution (Online); Atlanta

United Community Bank branches. 

- Please return to myajc.com for more on this story.  

Credit: Alexis Stevens, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution 
 
 


Police wearing bodycams in a new place after fatal - Sacramento Bee,
The (CA) - November 13, 2018 - page 3A
November 13, 2018 | Sacramento Bee, The (CA) | Theresa Clift | Page 3A

Sacramento police officers are wearing their body cameras in a different location to minimize
accidental shut-offs when officers use their rifles, a police spokesman said Monday.

T he change was implemented after police learned that the body cameras of multiple officers were
turned off when officers fatally shot 19-year-old Darell Richards
Darell Richards  in September - including the
camera of one of the SWAT  officers who fired shots, said Vance Chandler, Sacramento police
spokesman.

"(T hey're) putting them now in a place where the stock of their weapon is less likely to hit the
button to turn them off," Chandler said. Chandler said officers were previously wearing the
cameras on the center of their chests, where rifle butts were prone to hit the power switch. Now
officers who carry rifles will wear cameras off to the side.

T he change applies to the department's roughly 15 SWAT  officers, as well as all patrol officers who
carry rifles, Chandler said.

T he department is looking for a long-term solution to the problem, Chandler said.

Richards' family has filed a claim against the city - a precursor to a federal civil rights lawsuit, said
John Burris, the family's lawyer.

Burris, who has litigated several police shooting cases, said he has not heard of officers' weapons
turning off body cameras.

"T here should not be a situation where typically the best evidence in a case is neutralized because
of the video camera's contact with the weapon," Burris said. "It should never happen."

Several other departments who buy body cameras from the same company, Axon, have had
similar issues, Chandler said.

During a news conference Monday, Richards' family and Black Lives Matter activists criticized the
department for the cameras being turned off. T hey also demanded that the police department
release the names of the officers involved, that the city fire the officers involved, and that the
District Attorney's Office charge the officers. Richards had mental health issues, family members
said.

"T hey had a chance to use other options, for them to arrest him, bring him in alive instead of them
just shooting him down the way they did," said Kathie Richards, Darell's grandmother. "I still don't
understand why the SWAT  team was brought in to the situation."

T he two officers who fired shots were placed on paid administrative leave, in accordance with the
department's policy for police-involved shootings, Chandler said. Both officers are now back on
active duty.

T he department does not plan to release the officers' names because the department has
received threats against them, but the department will continue to consider it, Chandler said.

T he incident began at around 11:30 p.m. Sept. 5 when a 911 caller said a man wearing a face mask
was pointing a gun at people while walking up Broadway. Patrol officers found the man near 20th
Street and Broadway, and he fled to Curtis Park. Police blocked off streets, and used K-9 officers
and a California Highway Patrol airplane crew to find him. SWAT  officers found Richards hours later
crouching under a stairwell in the backyard of a Curtis Park home.

Police said Richards pointed the gun at officers, causing police to fatally shoot him. Afterward,
police said they recovered Richards' gun, which looked like a 9mm handgun but was actually a pellet
gun. T hey said they also recovered a knife.

Police later released video of the incident, which showed Richards had a gun, but did not show
where he pointed it.

T he police investigation into the incident is continuing, Chandler said. T he investigation includes
determining whether the officers acted according to policy.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Sacramento Bee

 
Signs of mental illness in man shot - Sacramento Bee, The (CA) -
September 13, 2018 - page 1A
September 13, 2018 | Sacramento Bee, The (CA) | Molly Sullivan and Cynthia Hubert | Page 1A

As the clock ticked toward midnight on a cool September night in Sacramento, a young man
wearing a dark hoodie and a medical face mask walked alone along the city's busy Broadway
corridor, passing restaurants, bars and bookstores and waving an object that looked like a gun.

T he first calls to police dispatchers came around 11:30 p.m. on Wednesday, Sept. 5. A "suspicious
subject" was roaming the area.

One caller said a man wearing a mask had pointed a gun at a group standing in front of Dimple
Records before moving on, according to dispatch audio recorded by Broadcastify, an online
archive. T he man walked past Tower Cafe, where callers said he brandished the weapon at a few
employees cleaning the restaurant.

Darell Richards , 19, who grew up in Elk Grove and, following altercations with a
T he suspect was Darell Richards
younger brother that resulted in criminal charges, had recently moved in with his grandparents in
Oak Park. Family members and friends believed Richards was mentally spiraling, showing signs of
paranoia and aggression - a stark change from his mostly quiet and gentle past.

He was scheduled for a psychiatric evaluation, but he ran out of time.

T hree hours after police began pursuing Richards that Wednesday night, SWAT  team members
shot him dead as he crouched under a stairwell in Curtis Park, just a few blocks from where
Richards was first spotted on Broadway and 16th Street. Police later determined that his weapon
was a pellet gun that resembled a handgun and that he also was carrying a knife.

T he most recent fatal shooting of a young black man by Sacramento police has shaken the
community, with some wondering if officers could have subdued Richards without shooting him
dead. Protesters said they intend to confront City Council members Thursday to demand police
changes and justice for Richards and others killed by police, including Stephon Clark, whose death in
March became a national controversy.

"Every time they kill somebody, we are going to be in their face," said Tanya Faison, a leader in
Sacramento's Black Lives Matter movement.

Police said that prior to approaching Richards, they sent in K9 officers to help pin down his
whereabouts. Officers never engaged in a foot chase with him - unlike in the Clark case - and
instead tracked him with a California Highway Patrol airplane crew.

SWAT  officers, upon finding Richards in the back of an occupied house, ordered him "to drop his
weapon." When he pointed it at them, officers had no choice but to open fire, police said.

"When a suspect is pointing a firearm at officers, they're in immediate danger," said Sgt. Vance
Chandler, police department spokesman. "At that point, a less lethal weapon is not an option."

'Very mellow' teenager changed dramatically

Richards leaves a large, tightly knit family and close friends.

"He was a good kid. He was always helpful around the house," said Aina Eden, his former girlfriend
of two years. "He always wanted to make his family proud. I know that for a fact."

Richards was born in Oak Park but spent part of his childhood in Elk Grove, where he attended
Monterey T rail High School before transferring to Hiram Johnson for his junior year, Eden said. He
was drawn to music and art, and wrote and recorded his own rap songs. He was rarely seen
without his earphones, dancing to different beats. He liked working out in gyms and playing
basketball on public courts.

Eden said he enjoyed playing with air guns, such as the replica of a Sig Sauer handgun that he
carried the night he died.

"He was still trying to figure out life," said his older sister, Marlena Lee. After graduating from a
continuation school, she said, he became interested in following a cousin and an uncle into the
military. He had already met with recruiters and filled out paperwork, but his plan was derailed by
arrests.

T he confrontations with his brother were out of character, Lee said. For most of his life, Richards
was polite and respectful. "Very mellow," she said. "He didn't like loud arguing or confrontation. He
tended to laugh things off."

But something changed within Richards in the past year or so, according to court records and
interviews.

His personality changed, and family members and friends began to suspect he was mentally
troubled. His unpredictable behavior and eruptions of anger led to the confrontations with his
brother, Lee said. T he fights led to criminal charges and a restraining order against Richards.

Following the incidents, Richards moved to Oak Park to live with his grandparents. He was staying
with them on the last night of his life.

"I did see signs recently that something was wrong," Lee said. "Darell was not ever violent or
argumentative. It wasn't like him."

He also seemed paranoid at times, worrying that people were out to get him, friends and
acquaintances said.

"We worried about schizophrenia," Lee said. "We were trying to get him help, but it came a little too
late. It's heartbreaking."

T he first confrontation with his then-15-year-old brother was April 24, according to court records.
Police were called to the house after Richards allegedly hit his sibling with a "ceramic bank," court
records and a police report show. Richards was arrested on assault charges. His brother suffered
minor injuries.

About a month later, things escalated. Richards allegedly hit his brother on the head with a
"wooden club" and fled his family home on foot, according to court records and the police report.
His brother was taken to the hospital for treatment.

'Let's get you some counseling'

Richards' mother, Khoua Vang, applied for a domestic violence restraining order against Richards
in response. In it, she said her younger son had a concussion from the blow and a bump on his
head. She said Richards was "sick in the head to beat up his little brother."

A warrant was issued for his arrest, and he was taken into custody July 9 by the Sacramento County
Sheriff's Department.

Quoc T o, who grew close to Richards and his family while serving as his public defender in the
cases, said his client had never been in trouble with the law prior to those incidents and expressed
deep remorse for what happened. "Darell loved his brother," he said, "and his brother loved him."

At the urging of family members, the lawyer said he filed a petition this summer to appoint a
doctor to evaluate his client's mental condition. Richards was next scheduled to be in court on Oct.
1.

Richards at first resisted the notion that he might be mentally ill, his lawyer said.

"But I told him, 'Look, Darell, you have the rest of your life ahead of you. Let's sit down with a
doctor, let's get you some counseling.'"

T he lawyer spoke with a psychiatrist, and last Thursday morning phoned his client's family
members to let them know that he had taken that step. He got a devastating reply, he said.

"I was told, 'T he coroner is here right now,'" T o said.

'pow-pow-pow-

pow-pow'

Interviews, police reports and court documents fill in the details of what happened in a slice of
Curtis Park between railroad tracks and 21st Street the night Richards died.

Shortly before midnight, Candace Schuncke was awakened by a voice from a police loudspeaker.

"Get in your house and lock your doors," was the command.

"I wasn't that concerned," said Schuncke, who lives on 20th Street, just south of Broadway.
"Obviously they were looking for someone." She went back to bed, she said.

While she slept, SWAT  and K9 teams began arriving. Police learned that the suspect had fled to the
neighborhood and had jumped a fence. T hey blocked off the area and began searching for him.

Officers caught glimpses of Richards a few times that night as he scrambled between backyards,
knocking over garbage cans, according to radio communications.

Around 3 a.m., Schuncke's two dachshunds began barking hysterically. She peered into her
backyard and saw flashlights. Her doorbell rang, and she opened it to find a pair of SWAT  officers,
heavily armed and in dark uniforms, standing before her.

"T hey were very polite," she said. T hey urged her to remain indoors and continued their search.

About 15 minutes later, "I heard pow-pow-pow-pow-pow, and I thought, 'I guess they have their
man,'" Schuncke recalled. She estimated that she heard 15 to 20 shots.

Later that morning, she saw officers place a backpack and other evidence into plastic bags. She
learned that a man had been killed by police while hiding under a stairwell at a house around the
corner from her, on First Avenue.

T he reality of what she had experienced began to sink in, she said.

"A young man had been shot to death. Couldn't they have stunned him or shot him in the arm or
shoulder? I just felt very sad. It's a sad situation."

Lee said the family is gathering information and reserving comment on what happened to Richards
in the wee hours of Sept. 6. T hey did not want to address why he was outdoors at midnight
wearing a face mask, or why he was carrying a pellet gun.

On Wednesday they were still in shock, she said, as they planned his memorial service.

"It's still so unbelievable," Lee said. "I can't even put into words what I am feeling right now. I can't
believe my brother is gone."

He was a good kid. He was always helpful around the house. He always wanted to make his family
proud. I know that for a fact.

Aina Eden, former girlfriend

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Sacramento Bee

 
Man fatally shot by police in Curtis Park was - Sacramento Bee, The (CA)
- September 7, 2018 - page 1B
September 7, 2018 | Sacramento Bee, The (CA) | Michael MGough and Molly Sullivan | Page 1B

T he man fatally shot by police Thursday morning was armed with a pellet gun modeled after a 9
mm handgun and a knife, Sacramento police said in a press release.

T he man - identified late Thursday as Darell Richards
Office - was shot by two SWAT  officers after he refused to drop the gun and then pointed it at
officers, the department said.

Darell Richards , 19, by the Sacramento County Coroner's

Dispatch received a call at 11:23 p.m. Wednesday reporting a person armed with a firearm and
wearing a mask in the area of 16th Street and Broadway, according to police spokesman Sgt.
Vance Chandler.

Officers responded and found a suspect matching that description at 20th Street and Broadway,
and the man ran away as officers tried to make contact, Chandler said. Police did not chase on
foot but maintained visual from patrol cars, he said.

T he man was wearing a black hoodie, gray pants and carrying a black backpack, according to radio
communications accessed through Broadcastify, an online archive of police radio activity.

He ditched his backpack while fleeing police on Broadway.

T he suspect, who was identified by the coroner as African American, ran into a residential area
south of 20th and Broadway and attempted to jump a fence; it was then that an officer standing
outside his patrol car saw the man holding the gun in his hand, according to the release.

Officers established a perimeter and called the SWAT  team in, Chandler said. T he SWAT  team
searched the area using a K-9 and at 3:12 a.m. Thursday found the suspect hiding under a stairwell
in a backyard of an occupied house.

"At the time, he posed an immediate threat to officers, and two SWAT  officers fired on the
suspect," Chandler said.

Officers performed CPR until fire personnel arrived and pronounced the man dead at the scene.
Officers recovered the gun and discovered it was actually a pellet gun that looked very similar to a
Sig Sauer P225 9 mm handgun, according to the release. T hey also found a knife at the scene.

T he suspect's name has not yet been released by the Sacramento County Coroner's Office.

T he two officers involved in the shooting are 11- and 17-year veterans with the department;
neither were injured.

Homicide detectives, Internal Affairs and Crime Scene Investigation units responded to the scene
T hursday morning, which remained closed throughout the day.

A large police presence remained along 21st Street near Broadway, closing 21st Street, Larkin Way
and most of Burnett Way.

Linda Perrault, who lives on nearby Burnett Way, said she received a message on her voicemail
from Sacramento police Thursday morning advising residents to stay in place as officers searched
for an armed suspect. She said she locked her doors and "hibernated."

T im Foster, the executive director of publisher Open California, tweeted video of police activity
around midnight, saying "Cops were suddenly EVERYWHERE."

Foster on T witter described a "full SWAT  team" entering his neighbor's yard, then tweeted "SHOT S
FIRED IN MY BACKYARD!"

At 3:40 a.m., Foster wrote, "Pretty sure someone just died in my backyard."

Foster declined a request for comment by T he Bee.

Police have not yet determined whether the masked man committed crimes other than
brandishing a firearm before fleeing, Chandler said.

T hursday's incident marks at least the third confirmed officer-involved shooting resulting in the
death of a suspect in Sacramento County so far this year. In addition to the high-profile death of
Stephon Clark, a shooting during a confrontation at an Elk Grove hotel killed a 26-year-old man in
late April.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Sacramento Bee

 
Video shows man had gun, but where he pointed it - Sacramento Bee,
The (CA) - September 15, 2018 - page 1B
September 15, 2018 | Sacramento Bee, The (CA) | Molly Sullivan, Cynthia Hubert, Ryan Lillis and Benjy Egel |
Page 1B

In police video released Friday, Sacramento officers can be heard telling 19-year-old Darell
Darell
Richards
Richards  to drop his weapon before firing on him in a Curtis Park backyard, but the camera angles
of officers' videos do not show Richards in the moments before the shooting.

Richards had a pellet gun, modeled after a 9mm handgun, and allegedly pointed it at officers during
the incident on Sept. 6.

T wo officers fired multiple shots in a rapid burst at Richards, but the body camera on one of them
was turned off at the time of the shooting. Department spokesman Sgt. Vance Chandler said the
camera had accidentally been deactivated earlier when the officer was searching a house. A
barbecue grill obscures sight of Richards on the other officer's camera. In later footage, the pellet
gun can be seen next to Richards' body.

More than two hours of video and audio show a methodical search of the neighborhood, with
officers eventually releasing a K-9 in a backyard before following Richards into the dense and leafy
area. Officers see Richards hiding amid lawn furniture and garden equipment under a staircase and
say, "Show me your hands, show me your hands, put the gun down," before unleashing a volley of
bullets.

While camera angles do not definitively show Richards pointing his pellet gun at officers, at least
two officers say that he pointed the gun at them in conversation and radio communications.

Richards' sister, Marlena Lee, expressed outrage after the family viewed the video Friday at police
headquarters on Freeport Blvd.

"T hey have no proof," she said. "T hey had no proof that my brother did anything, other than hide
from them. Nowhere do these videos show that he pointed a gun."

Lee said police told the family that the camera that would have shown that image was "accidentally
turned off," possibly after an officer "bumped into something."

"We thought that today we might get some closure," Lee said. "But we got nothing. I saw my
brother shot dead in a pool of blood. In my mind, he was murdered."

In video, a SWAT  officer can been seen removing the pellet gun from next to Richards' body and
throwing it in the dirt. T he officer then removes a knife from the body. He inspects Richards' body,
saying "Got no gunshot wounds to the front of his chest. Got nothing on his back. I'm trying to
figure out where his injuries are."

He then finds "cranial fractures" and blood coming from Richards' ear.

T he incident began at 11:31 p.m. on Wednesday, Sept. 5, when a 911 caller reported that a man
wearing a face mask had pointed a gun at him and was making his way up Broadway with a gun in
his hand, according to a dispatch recording of the call. T he man, wearing a black hoodie cinched
around his face and a medical mask, pointed the gun at bystanders at Tower Cafe and Dimple
Records, according to police radio communications recorded on Broadcastify, an online archive.

Patrol officers found him in the area of 20th Street and Broadway. He bolted on foot when they
tried to talk to him, dropping his backpack as he ran. In it, officers found paperwork for Darell
Darell
Richards , according to radio communications.
Richards

Richards ran south into Curtis Park, hiding in backyards of homes. Officers did not chase Richards
on foot, but blocked off the streets, using K-9 officers and a California Highway Patrol airplane
crew to find him.

Richards was shot more than three hours later by two SWAT  officers when he was found
crouching under a stairwell in the backyard of an occupied Curtis Park home, police said in a press
release after the incident.

Officers performed CPR until fire personnel arrived and pronounced Richards dead at the scene.

Richards grew up in Elk Grove and, following altercations with a younger brother that resulted in
criminal charges, had recently moved in with his grandparents in Oak Park. Interviews and court
records show family members and friends believed Richards was mentally spiraling, showing signs
of paranoia and aggression, a stark change from his mostly quiet and gentle past, they said.

"We worried about schizophrenia," Marlena Lee, Richard's older sister, told T he Bee this week. "We
were trying to get him help, but it came a little too late. It's heartbreaking."

Molly Sullivan: 916-321-1176, @SullivanMollyM

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Sacramento Bee

 
Suit: Sacramento police shot unarmed black man - Sacramento Bee, The
(CA) - March 7, 2019 - page 2A
March 7, 2019 | Sacramento Bee, The (CA) | Sam Stanton | Page 2A

As Sacramento officials grapple with protests over the Stephon Clark case, the family of another
young black man shot to death by Sacramento police have sued the city alleging that officers shot
him while he was in the midst of a mental health crisis and holding his hands in the air.

T he lawsuit was filed Monday in U.S. District Court on behalf of the family of Darell Richards
Sacramento teenager shot to death Sept. 6, 2018, in a Curtis Park backyard after a 911 call
reported a man walking along Broadway wearing a hospital mask and pointing a gun at people.

Darell Richards , a

T he call prompted an hours-long search that stretched from Broadway and 20th Street to Curtis
Park, where streets were blocked off and a K-9 police dog and California Highway Patrol helicopter
were used to locate him hiding under a stairwell.

Police said at the time that Richards, who the suit says was 18, was shot after he pointed a gun at
them. T he gun later was found to be a pellet pistol that resembled a 9 mm handgun, and police
video showed he had a gun but did not show where he had pointed it.

T he lawsuit, filed by attorney John Burris, disputes that, saying that Richards was "cowering under
the raised deck" as SWAT  officers "screamed commands at the confused teenager and
immediately opened fire. ..."

T he suit also claims that Richards was holding his hands up "and positioned in a surrender posture,
with his palms open and facing the officers at the time that defendants began to shoot him," a
claim that the suit says is bolstered by the fact that he was shot through his right palm.

"... Decedent was not holding a firearm at the time that he was shot to death," the suit claims.

T he city had no immediate comment on the lawsuit, which claims that officers "made a series of
tactical errors in attempting to detain him while he was in the midst of a mental health crisis,"
including a failure to try and contact him to de-escalate the incident or bring in a hostage
negotiation team to talk him out of the backyard.

T he Richards shooting has been controversial, with Black Lives Matters activists criticizing the fact
that some officers' body cameras were turned off at the time of the shooting - including one worn
by a SWAT  officer who fired at him. T he city later said it was changing its policy on where the
cameras are worn to prevent them from accidentally being turned off when officers aimed their
rifles.

T he filing of the lawsuit comes as activists have laid siege to police department headquarters and
City Hall over announcements in the past week that the district attorney and attorney general will

not file charges against the officers who shot Clark, an unarmed 22-year-old killed in his
grandparents' backyard March 18, 2018, by officers who said they thought he was pointing a gun
at them. Clark was later found to be carrying only a cell phone.

T he Clark shooting has spawned demonstrations that have lasted for a year, and that intensified in
the past week with protests at the police department, at a City Hall meeting Tuesday night that
was repeatedly disrupted and with a march through East Sacramento's Fab 40s neighborhood that
resulted in 84 people being arrested, including clergy, lawyers and journalists.

A sit-in at Arden Fair, the city's largest shopping center, prompted management to keep the mall
closed Sunday, and Sacramento Kings officials worried about protest marches have surrounded
the Golden 1 Center downtown with fencing and gates.

Sam Stanton: (916) 321-1091, @StantonSam

Copyrig ht (c) 2019 The Sacramento Bee

 
Steinberg shuts down council session after - Sacramento Bee, The (CA) -
September 15, 2018 - page 1B
September 15, 2018 | Sacramento Bee, The (CA) | Darrell Smith | Page 1B

Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steinberg abruptly adjourned an emotionally charged City Council
meeting Thursday night a little more than an hour into the session after a series of speakers
peppered their comments with obscenities directed at the dais.

T he outbursts came as anger and frustration continue to mount over the death of another
African-American man at the hands of Sacramento police.

Darell Richards
Darell Richards , a mentally ill 19-year-old African-American man, was shot dead just after
midnight Sept. 6, by officers in a Curtis Park backyard. Richards was carrying a pellet gun. Officers
found Richards crouched under a stairwell a few blocks from where he was first spotted on
Broadway near 16th Street. Officers opened fire when Richards pointed the pistol at them,
Sacramento police officials said.

"T he least you can do is fire those officers. T his shouldn't be happening," Stephanie Periera, who
would be the meeting's final speaker, said from the podium. "Have you heard his mother's wails?
T here's no excuse for your (expletive). F--- you," Periera said.

By then, Steinberg had had enough.

"You must leave the chamber. T here's got to be decorum here. You can't use profanity directed at
any of us," Steinberg said before calling for the next speaker as audience members shouted "Stop
killing us!" from their seats.

After a few more minutes, Steinberg ended the session.

"T he business of the council, being done, is adjourned," he said.

Richards' death last week was months after the death of Brandon Smith while in custody at
Sacramento County Main Jail. T he community was roiled in March by the high-profile officer-
involved shooting of Stephon Clark in a Meadowview neighborhood that sent protesters marching
through Sacramento streets, to the county District Attorney's Office and to Sacramento City Hall,
where demonstrators packed meetings in the wake of Clark's death.

T he tense atmosphere in the days and weeks after Clark's shooting was punctuated by
demonstrations outside chambers and by Clark's brother Stevante Clark sprinting to the council
dais for a face-to-face confrontation with Steinberg.

Months later in July, council members mulled a ban on "abusive or threatening" protesters at
council meetings that would bar people ejected from two or more meetings in a six-month period

from council sessions for 30 days and impose a 90-day ban on those ejected from three or more
meetings during that same six-month span.

City officials on Friday said the council has no current plan to bring back those proposed changes
to the rules and procedures for a vote.

A calmer Stevante Clark spoke T hursday, calling again for police accountability and for the
resource center, library and recreation centers he wants erected in his brother's name.

"T he city feels failed again," Stevante Clark said. "T here's a lot of accountability that needs to be
held on the police department for the things that are happening in the city of Sacramento. We all
should come together and find solutions, because it's messed up what's going on."

One after another, speakers railed against Sacramento police and leveled criticism against council
members and Steinberg, who they suggested was more concerned with council decorum than
officer-involved deaths of black and brown people.

"Stop killing black people. It's really that simple. T he community is coming in here telling you that
black lives matter and asking you to stop killing them - and yet, you're killing them," speaker James
J. Jackson Jr., said addressing Steinberg. "Get your (expletive) together. If you care more about
decorum than you care about people saying, 'Don't kill black people,' then you're a terrible person."

T he aborted meeting also marked two years to the day after Sacramento Black Lives Matter
leader Tanya Faison and others stood before the council to demand action after the deaths of
Dazion Flenaugh and Joseph Mann after being confronted by police.

"On this exact day, we filled up this council chambers. We were fighting for Dazion and for Joseph
Mann. We were fighting for a (police) commission that had more power. We didn't get any of that,"
Faison told council members. "I don't know how you all expect to be respected in this space when
you're not doing anything."

T he mayor also ejected several people who launched profanities from the podium and invoked
council decorum rules that state that those attending council meetings refrain from inappropriate
behavior and derogatory comments.

Sacramento officers slowly converged on another speaker who was repeatedly warned that she
had exceeded her two-minute speaking limit but refused to leave the podium. Audience members
briefly surrounded the speaker and shielded her from officers before she left the chambers.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Sacramento Bee

 
Deadly police shootings raise questions - Sacramento Bee, The (CA) -
March 27, 2019 - page 3A
March 27, 2019 | Sacramento Bee, The (CA) | Theresa Clift | Page 3A

A number of recent high-profile police shootings in Sacramento have resulted in deaths of African
American men showing signs of mental illness.

In 2016, officers shot and killed Dazion Flenaugh, who was said to have undiagnosed bipolar
disorder. Last September, police said Darell Richards
pellet gun on Broadway Avenue - was spiraling down mentally. A month ago, in part of an
explanation of why officers weren't going to face charges, Sacramento County District Attorney
Anne Marie Schubert described how Stephon Clark had researched how to commit suicide before
he was shot and killed by police in his grandmother's back yard in 2018.

Darell Richards  - who was killed by police after he waved a

T he Sacramento Community Police Review Commission wants to make changes in response to
the fatal shootings. T he group says it wants police to post public reports every three months that
detail all use-of-force incidents. T hey also want to change the rules governing use of force by
police.

Commission Chair Karin Savage-Sangwan says her group wants public information released about
the victims when officers use force so trends can be identified, such as force being used more
frequently on mentally ill people or people whose first language is not English.

Nearly 40 percent of officer shootings in Santa Clara County between 2013 and 2017 involved
someone who was mentally ill, the San Jose Mercury News reported.

T he commission is also recommending the department's use of force general orders be amended
to remove a sentence that says officers can use deadly force if "the officer reasonably believes
that the suspect poses a threat of death or serious bodily injury either to the officer or to others,"
and replace it with a sentence that says officers can use deadly force "only as a last resort and
when reasonable alternatives have been exhausted or are not feasible to protect public and officer
safety."

T he City Council discussed Tuesday the changes recommended by the Sacramento Community
Police Review Commission but took no action.

T he commission believes the change in policy language would require officers to first use non-
lethal force options such as Tasers and bean bags instead of deadly force when possible, said
Savage-Sangwan.

"(Officers would) take a breath, take a second and see if there's anything else they can use,"
Savage-Sangwan said.

Sacramento police officials are currently reviewing the department's entire use of force policy as
they consider 49 recommendations from a California Department of Justice report, police
spokesman Vance Chandler said.

When police do use force, the commission wants police to post a public quarterly report that
includes: the type of force; type of injury to officer and suspect; date, time and location of the
incident; officer unit and district station where force was used; officer's activity when force was
used and subject's activity requiring the use of force.

T he reports would also include the age, gender, race, rank of the officer, as well as how long they
have been on the force and how long they worked for other departments. It would also require the
race, age, gender, gender identity of the suspect, as well as whether they have a mental illness,
cognitive impairment, developmental disability, drug and alcohol use and whether they are
homeless.

Police frequently release basic information about use of force incidents the day of the incident or
the day after, including type of force, time and location of force, and how many officers were
involved as part of its daily activity log, Chandler said.

T he department does not release gender and age of officers involved in use of force incidents,
though, even if a Public Records Act request is filed, Chandler said.

As far as suspect demographics, the department sometimes releases toxicology results or
whether the suspect was homeless, but depending on the situation, the department does not
always have that information, Chandler said.

T he commission also recommends the police adopt a series of requirements to increase diversity,
including increased recruitment for minorities; priority given to applicants who grew up in
Sacramento or have lived here more than 10 years; incentives to officers that live in the city limits;
more diverse training officers; and including "diversity hiring" as part of the chief's annual
performance review.

A June 2016 city audit revealed that just 14 of the department's 607 police officers were black, 70
were Latino and 47 were Asian. It also showed that 101 of the department's 127 command staff
members were white.

A year and a half ago, the police launched a series of programs aimed to increase diversity and
improve community relations, Chandler said.

Among them, police hold boot camps in neighborhoods like Oak Park and Del Paso Heights to get
interested applicants from minority neighborhoods instead of just holding them at police
headquarters, Chandler said.

"It's us taking an extra step to go out and reach out to them and we feel that it's very valuable,"
Chandler said.

T he City Council discussed the recommendations during its meeting T uesday.

Mayor Darrell Steinberg said Tuesday he wants the council to vote on the change use of force
policy language in a few weeks, after he meets with police officers and community leaders."I want
all our colleagues to land on something that is consistent that supports reform and change that
doesn't at city level lead to prosecution of more officers, that's not the point, but has better
chance of keeping the community and officers safer."Councilman Larry Carr said he wants the
council's ad hoc committee to discuss the matter first.

Copyrig ht (c) 2019 The Sacramento Bee

 
Community members mourn - 19-year-old fatally - Sacramento Bee, The
(CA) - September 9, 2018 - page 2B
September 9, 2018 | Sacramento Bee, The (CA) | Claire Morgan | Page 2B

"Darell, I miss you already," Christine Vang cried. "How am I supposed to live the rest of my life
without you, Darell?"

She was gathered with a group of people to mourn the life of Darell Richards
man who was shot and killed by Sacramento police SWAT  officers Thursday morning after
brandishing a pellet gun that looked like a 9 mm handgun and knife. Vang is Richards' mother.

Darell Richards , the 19-year-old

T he vigil, held Friday night at 21st Street and 2nd Avenue in Curtis Park, was organized by
Sacramento Black Lives Matter.

A large crowd quietly held hands and joined together for a prayer, led in order to "pray for justice
for Darell, we pray for justice for the family, and for unity amongst us as a community," a group
leader said.

"It is our duty to fight for our freedom, it is our duty to win, we must love and support one another,
we have nothing to lose but our chains," the crowd chanted after the prayer.

Vang and Richards' other family members cried together while crowd members came and hugged
them.

Chucc Gauthier said he came to the vigil to support his best friend, Richards' father.

"T here's really no words for it, it just shouldn't have happened," Gauthier said. "He loved to ride
bikes, he was always out and about. He was full of energy. I can't even talk, I can't even talk. He
was a good kid."

"All I can say on behalf of the family is that we are saddened by this tragedy," Richards' public
defender Quoc T o said. "Darell was a kind soul, a good young man. Regardless of the
circumstances or the situation, this was a life that was cut short tragically and it did not need to
happen."

"We can't forget his face," Vang said quietly to a member of the crowd.

Claire Morgan: 916-321-1191, @jemapelleclaire

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Sacramento Bee

 

 
The Los Angeles Times and the Sacramento Bee sued the Sacramento County Sheriff's Department on Friday for

documents about misconduct or significant force by deputies, marking the latest case in what has become a

statewide legal battle over the disclosure of law enforcement personnel records. 

The lawsuit alleges that the department violated the state's Public Records Act by denying requests from both

Disciplinary reports have long been secret in California, but a landmark law that took effect Jan. 1 requires the

disclosure of records of shootings by officers, severe uses of force and confirmed cases of sexual assault and

newspapers. 

lying by officers. 

that took place before 2019. 

retroactive." 

Law enforcement unions in Los Angeles and several other counties have obtained temporary restraining orders

stopping agencies from releasing records, arguing that Senate Bill 1421 does not apply to records from incidents

In denying requests for the documents, the Sacramento Sheriff's Department said it was withholding records until

there was "clear legal authority to release such records" because "Senate Bill 1421 ... was not expressly made

There are no restraining orders preventing the Sheriff's Department from releasing the records. 

The newspapers' lawsuit cited two deadly shootings by Sacramento police officers last year that set off protests.

In one, Stephon Clark, an unarmed 22-year-old, was fatally shot in his grandmother's backyard as police looked for

a vandal in the neighborhood. In the other, 19-year-old Darell Richards was shot after allegedly pointing a pellet gun

at SWAT officers. 

"The public interest in monitoring police conduct is especially strong in Sacramento County (as in the rest of

California), where officer-involved shootings which claimed the lives of Stephon Clark and Darell Richards, have

ignited public protests and criticism of police," the lawsuit said. 

The lawsuit said that when SB 1421 was being developed last year, one of the bill's opponents, the Los Angeles

County Professional Peace Officers Assn., acknowledged the measure would be retroactive. The group, which

represents some Los Angeles County sheriff's deputies, argued that some police records could become public

even if an officer's actions were justified. 

"Moreover, our reading of Senate Bill 1421 is that making the records of an officer's lawful and in-policy conduct is

retroactive in its impact ... (an officer's) records are available for public inspection irrespective of whether or not

they occurred prior to the effective date of SB 1421," the association wrote. The comments were cited in a

California Senate public safety committee analysis of the bill. 

Until last year, the state's powerful law enforcement unions repeatedly blocked attempts to make any disciplinary

records public. But lawmakers approved SB 1421 amid a heightened debate over how officers use force and

interact with communities of color. 

Proponents of the measure say restricting its reach to records of incidents after Jan. 1 severely limits the law's

effectiveness and shields misconduct by some officers who remain on the job. 

Sen. Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley), who wrote the law, said she intended for it to apply to any records in a

department's possession. She added that if a court decided otherwise, she believed the law would still increase

transparency of police activities. 

comment Friday afternoon. 

The Sacramento County Sheriff's Department did not immediately respond to an email and phone call requesting

Caption: PHOTO: STEVANTE CLARK speaks at a rally in Sacramento to protest last year's fatal shooting of his

brother, Stephon Clark, by police officers. Stephon was unarmed. 

PHOTOGRAPHER:Josh Edelson AFP/Getty Images 
 
 

Police release 66 more videos from Richards - Sacramento Bee, The (CA)
- October 5, 2018 - page 5A
October 5, 2018 | Sacramento Bee, The (CA) | Molly Sullivan | Page 5A

T he Sacramento Police Department released 66 additional videos Thursday showing the hours-
long search for 19-year-old Darell Richards
pointing a pellet gun modeled after a 9mm handgun at SWAT  officers.

Darell Richards , who was shot dead by police Sept. 6 after allegedly

Dozens of officers responded to the residential area south of Broadway that night after Richards
ran away from police. In the most recent videos, officers' cameras do not catch a glimpse of
Richards prior to the shooting.

In body camera footage released Sept. 14, officers ordered Richards to drop his weapon before
two of them fired multiple shots in a rapid burst. T he body camera of one of those officers was
turned off at the time of the shooting. Department spokesman Sgt. Vance Chandler told T he
Sacramento Bee the camera had accidentally been deactivated earlier when the officer was
searching a house. A barbecue grill obscures sight of Richards on the other officer's camera.

T he latest videos show SWAT  officers take cover then use a shield to approach Richards, ordering
him to show his hands multiple times. When he doesn't respond, the officers move closer and say
they don't see a weapon in his hands. In previously released footage, the pellet gun can be seen
next to Richards' body.

T hey call for a medic bag and one officer kneels next to Richards saying, "I got no pulse." He also
says he sees "obvious skull fractures."

Paramedics from the Sacramento Fire Department arrive six minutes later and eventually
pronounce Richards dead after 3 a.m.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Sacramento Bee

 

UPDATE: Police identify man fatally shot by - Chronicle, The (Goshen,
NY) - June 18, 2018
June 18, 2018 | Chronicle, The (Goshen, NY) | ERIKA NORTON

WARWICK — A man wielding a knife was shot and killed by a Warwick police officer responding to a
reported domestic dispute, according to the Warwick police in a filmed press conference.

Dwayne Clyburn.
T he state police confirmed Monday that the man fatally shot was 37-year-old Dwayne Clyburn

T wo Warwick police officers responded to a residence on Wheeler Avenue in the village at 3 p.m.
on Saturday, June 16, Warwick Police Lt. Thomas Maslanka told reporters on Saturday. Upon
arrival, Maslanka said the officers encountered Clyburn armed with a knife.

Clyburn attempted to advance on the officers with the knife, Maslanka said, and the officers
ordered him to drop his weapon, but he would not comply. Subsequently, the officers discharged
the weapon and struck Clyburn.

Clyburn was injured and transported to St. Anthony's Community Hospital in Warwick, where he
was pronounced dead, Maslanka said.

T he New York State Police and the Orange County District Attorney's Office are handling the
investigation into the shooting.

Orange County District Attorney David Hoovler said in the short press conference Saturday that "a
grand jury will make the final determination on whether this shooting is justified or not justified."

Warwick Police Chief Thomas McGovern directed T he Warwick Advertiser to online video of the
short press conference and said that the information given on Saturday afternoon is the only
information they are releasing at this time.

McGovern said that the last police shooting in Warwick was 14 years ago. He did not know
whether police had been called to this residence before.

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Chronicle, The (Goshen, NY), All Rights Reserved.

 
Multiple wounds in fatal shooting - Probe - Times Herald-Record, The
(Middletown, NY) - June 20, 2018 - page A6
June 20, 2018 | Times Herald-Record, The (Middletown, NY) | Richard J. Bayne Times Herald-Record | Article |
Page A6

WARWICK — Autopsy results on the man who was shot and killed by police Saturday in the Village
of Warwick indicate the man died of multiple gunshot wounds, the Orange County district attorney
said T uesday.

Orange County District Attorney David Hoovler said investigators will be submitting toxicology
Dwayne
tests to a crime lab to determine if the man who was shot and killed, identified as Dwayne
Clyburn, 37, had drugs or alcohol in his system. A lab will also be conducting forensics tests.
Clyburn

Hoovler would not say how many times Clyburn was shot or precisely where the bullets struck him.
T he fatal shooting occurred about 3 p.m. Saturday at 24 Wheeler Ave. as T own of Warwick police
responded to a domestic disturbance.

Police said Clyburn, who was armed with a knife, advanced on them, refused commands to drop
the knife, and a town officer shot him.

T he knife has been recovered. It's about 7 inches long, Hoovler said, but he declined to describe
what kind of knife it is.

T wo neighbors who live on Wheeler Avenue said they heard three loud cracks shortly after 3 p.m.
Authorities have declined to specify the number of shots fired or indentify the officer who fired the
shots.

Hoovler said he expects the toxicology test results back in about 12 weeks. State police are
conducting an investigation into the fatal police shooting. Once that investigation is complete,
Hoovler said, the conclusions, along with the lab results, will be submitted to an Orange County
grand jury.

T he grand jury will determine if the officer who killed Clyburn should face charges. T he police
officer has been placed on administrative leave.

Hoovler has said that a person was injured at the address before police arrived. Authorities have
declined to comment on the extent of the injuries, the identity of the person harmed, or the
relationship between Clyburn and that person.

Neither Hoovler nor town police Lt. T om Maslanka, who briefed reporters at the scene on
Saturday, would say how many officers responded to that call. Maslanka said some town officers
are equipped with T asers, but he would not say if the officers who responded Saturday were
equipped with the stun weapons.

Hoovler said the question of whether Tasers or other, less-deadly force could have been used will
not enter into his analysis of the case under New York law. T he question, Hoovler said, is whether
the officer was justified or not justified to fire his weapon.

“Whether you could have used a Taser or pepper spray is a question for a civil jury,” Hoovler said.

dbayne@th-record.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Times Herald-Record, All Rights Reserved.

 

Grand jury clears officer in fatal shooting - - Times Herald-Record, The
(Middletown, NY) - December 14, 2018 - page A6
December 14, 2018 | Times Herald-Record, The (Middletown, NY) | Heather Yakin Times Herald-Record |
Article | Page A6

GOSHEN - An Orange County grand jury has cleared a T own of Warwick police officer who fatally
shot a man armed with a knife.

On T hursday, the grand jury declined to file charges against the officer who fired the shots that
killed Dwayne Clyburn

Dwayne Clyburn, 37, on June 16.

In light of the grand jury determination, District Attorney David Hoovler released the findings of an
investigation by his office and the state police.

Hoovler did not release the name of the officer.

Hoovler said the investigation showed the following:

Warwick police were called at 2:58 p.m. on June 16 to a home on Wheeler Avenue in Warwick for a
reported domestic dispute.

Officers arrived about 10 minutes later, and heard yelling inside the home. As one officer
approached the front door of the split-level home, someone opened the door from the inside.

Police found Clyburn in the front entrance foyer area. Almost immediately, Clyburn produced an 8-
inch steak knife and confronted the officer.

T he officer repeatedly ordered him to drop the knife. Instead, Clyburn charged the officer from
less than 15 feet away.

T he officer fired three rounds, striking Clyburn.

Officers immediately performed CPR and tried to render first aid to Clyburn, but he died from the
gunshots.

T he victim inside the home had suffered slash wounds to her hands, inflicted by Clyburn, Hoovler
said. Had he survived, he would have faced a number of felony and misdemeanor charges.

Hoovler said the autopsy showed the bullets struck Clyburn in the chest and right forearm, all
entering from the front, demonstrating that Clyburn was facing the officer.

Police recovered the steak knife from Clyburn’s hand immediately after the shooting, Hoovler said.

T oxicology testing showed that Clyburn was legally intoxicated and had marijuana in his system at
the time of his death, Hoovler said.

“Everyone that was present at the scene heard the officer repeatedly warn him to stop and drop
the knife, and he did not,” Hoovler said.

“T he loss of life is tragic. But you have to listen to what police are telling you.”

Hoovler said he personally oversaw the investigation and handled the grand jury presentation, as
he does in all police-involved shootings.

hyakin@th-record.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Times Herald-Record, All Rights Reserved.

 
Man fatally shot by police is identified - Times Herald-Record, The
(Middletown, NY) - June 19, 2018 - page A4
June 19, 2018 | Times Herald-Record, The (Middletown, NY) | Heather Yakin Times Herald-Record | Article |
Page A4

WARWICK - State police on Monday confirmed that Dwayne Clyburn
Saturday in Warwick by a town police officer.

Dwayne Clyburn, 37, was the man killed

Officials are releasing little information on the shooting.

An autopsy on Clyburn’s body was scheduled for Monday at the Orange County Medical Examiner’
Office. Officials have said Warwick police were called at 3 p.m. Saturday to a reported domestic
dispute at a home at 24 Wheeler Ave. in the Village of Warwick.

Orange County District Attorney David Hoovler has said that a person was injured at the address
before police arrived, but declined to comment on the extent of the injuries or the identity of the
person harmed. Hoovler said the call for help was made from the house, but declined to say who
made the call.

Police have said that Clyburn threatened another occupant of the home with a knife, and that he
did not obey police orders to drop the weapon.

Police said Clyburn advanced toward police, and an officer shot him. Clyburn was pronounced dead
at St. Anthony’s Community Hospital in Warwick, police said.

New York State Police are handling the investigation, and a grand jury will eventually hear evidence
and either clear the officer if jurors determine the use of deadly force was justified, or indict if they
find that the officer’s actions were not a justified use of deadly force.

T hat process is expected to take two to three months.

Hoovler said standard toxicology tests, including alcohol and opioid panel testing, will be performed
as part of the autopsy. Speaking in general terms, Hoovler said prosecutors would not generally
interview the officer who fired the shots. Courts have ruled that such interviews can be considered
compelled statements, a legal impediment to their use.

Hoovler said officers who were present but did not fire shots would be interviewed as a matter of
policy. Hoovler declined to comment on any specifics of the investigation, including what kind of
knife Clyburn might have possessed.

Warwick police referred all questions to state police, the agency handling the investigation in
keeping with Orange County’s policy. In New York, police and civilians may use deadly physical force
if they reasonably believe that someone is about to use lethal force, but police don’t have a duty to

retreat, Hoovler said.

For police-involved shooting cases, two questions must be answered, Hoovler said.

One: did the officer reasonably believe that the use of deadly force was necessary? T wo: would
another officer of similar experience and situation, knowing the same situation and information,
reasonable believe the use of lethal force was necessary?

If the answers to both questions are yes, Hoovler said, the action is justified under state law.

hyakin@th-record.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Times Herald-Record, All Rights Reserved.

 


 
A black security guard at a bar in the Chicago suburbs was killed by the police as he apparently tried to detain a

man he believed to be involved in a shooting, the authorities said Monday. 

Officers from several police departments had responded to reports of a shooting early Sunday morning at Manny’s

Luxury Lounge in Robbins, Ill., said Sophia Ansari, a spokeswoman for the Cook County Sheriff’s Office. 

Witnesses told the police that a fight had broken out and someone had started shooting. After the authorities

responded, a police officer shot the guard, Jemel Roberson, 26, who had a gun, Ms. Ansari said. Mr. Roberson died

at the hospital. 

Witnesses said that people in the crowd had yelled to arriving police officers that Mr. Roberson, who was wearing

gear that read “Security,” was a guard. Ms. Ansari confirmed that Mr. Roberson worked for the bar. 

“Everybody was screaming out, ‘Security!’,” one witness, Adam Harris, told WGN-TV . “He was a security guard. And

they still did their job, and saw a black man with a gun, and basically killed him.” 

This episode happened as many Republican politicians, including President Trump, have responded to mass

shootings across the United States by calling for more people to protectively carry guns. After a shooting at a

Pittsburgh synagogue left 11 people dead, Mr. Trump suggested that people carrying firearms during services

would have helped. 

Ms. Ansari said that five people were shot during the episode at the bar. The injuries sustained by four of those

people, including the man believed to have initially opened fire, were not life threatening, she said. 

An officer with the Midlothian Police Department shot Mr. Roberson, Ms. Ansari said. The Midlothian police chief,

Dan Delaney, confirmed in a statement that one of his officers had shot a “subject with a gun.” He did not name

the officer. 

unreasonable. 

hospital. 

comment. 

On Monday, Mr. Roberson’s mother, Beatrice Roberson, filed a federal lawsuit against the unnamed police officer

and the village of Midlothian. It alleges that the shooting was unprovoked, unjustified, excessive and

Ms. Ansari said the man who initially opened fire at the bar had not yet been charged. She said he was still at a

The shooting of Mr. Roberson is being investigated by the Illinois State Police, who did not return a call for

Family friends of Mr. Roberson’s said he had worked as an organist at several local churches and had once

dreamed of becoming a police officer himself, according to local news reports . Mr. Roberson had a state firearm

owner’s identification card, Ms. Ansari said, which authorized his possession of firearms. 

Mr. Roberson had planned to play later that day at New Spiritual Light Baptist Church, the pastor, Walter Turner,

“How in the world does the security guard get shot by the police?” Pastor Turner said. “A young man that was

told the local ABC affiliate . 

literally just doing his job, and now he’s gone.” 

Credit: Karen Zraick and Julia Jacobs 
 
 


 
A bevy of activists, religious leaders and politicians have held a flurry of press conferences, protests and vigils in

response to the controversial police shooting of security guard Jemel Roberson in the week since his death. 

One group that has thus far remained on the sideline stepped forward Sunday to show its support for Roberson’s

family and call for justice to be served. 

“A lot of us from Robbins, we haven’t been visual, and we wanted to come out and be able to show the family and

the world that the pastors that pastor in Robbins are supporting this family 100 percent,” the Rev. Calvin Watkins

of St. John Community Church said. 

Watkins and the leaders of several other Robbins churches gathered Sunday outside of St. John, 13436 S. Harding

Ave., to pray for Roberson’s family and assure the community they would not stay silent, “while our brothers, our

sons and our husbands and all our loved ones is being slaughtered for no reason in the street.” 

“We wanted to show that Robbins is here,” the Rev. Kenneth Orr of Real Love Ministries International Church in

Robbins said. “Because this happened in our community.” 

Watkins said Roberson, an organist and drummer who played for churches throughout the Chicago area, made

multiple stops in Robbins over the years, including playing in a musical at St. John about a year ago. 

“He was really, really a great guy, great smile, and the fact that he was working for the church and then he was

working security says to me that he wanted to take care of his family,” Watkins said. 

MORE COVERAGE: 'He's securing the gates of heaven now': Friends, family remember Jemel Roberson, security

guard fatally shot by cop » 

» 

Rev. Pfleger, pastors call for independent investigation into cop's fatal shooting of security guard Jemel Roberson

Roberson, 26, of Chicago, had been working security at Manny’s Blue Room in Robbins in the early morning hours

of Nov. 11 when a fight broke out between two groups of men and shots were fired. 

Police from multiple local departments responded to the shooting, including a white officer from neighboring

Midlothian, who shot Roberson, who was black, as he held one of the suspected bar shooters at gunpoint. 

According to a preliminary Illinois State Police investigation into the shooting that cited “witness statements,” the

officer gave “multiple verbal commands” to Roberson to drop his gun and get on the ground before shooting him. 

The preliminary report also said Roberson was wearing “plain black clothing with no markings readily identifying

him as a Security Guard.” 

Witnesses, however, have contradicted that account, saying that the officer opened fire on Roberson before giving

him an adequate opportunity to respond to his verbal commands. They also reported that Roberson was wearing

clothing clearly marked with the word “Security.” 

The Midlothian Police Department has remained largely mum on the incident and has not responded to requests

for comment, but did release a statement last week expressing sympathy for Roberson’s family. 

“The Midlothian Police Department is completely saddened by this tragic incident and we give our heartfelt

condolences to Jemel, his mother, his entire family and his friends,” the department said in its statement, which

called the shooting, “the equivalent of a ‘blue on blue,’ friendly fire incident.” 

The department has not released, nor been willing to confirm, the name of the officer who shot Roberson, but has

said he was placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the Illinois State Police’s investigation of

the incident. 

situation? 

Watkins on Sunday offered prayers both for Roberson’s family and for the officer’s family, but said he believed

justice would be served only if the officer was terminated and charged criminally for the shooting. 

“An innocent life was lost all because someone went overboard,” he said. “How many children do we have to lose

because someone goes overboard? How many children do we have to lose because someone misjudged a

“So we come today and we say we need justice to be done. On behalf of all of our community leaders in Robbins,

all of our block club presidents, we want justice to be done.” 

Going forward, Watkins said the church community in Robbins would follow Roberson’s case “every step of the

way” to ensure the family gets the justice it deserves. 

“He died saving lives,” Watkins said. “He gave his life to save somebody else’s life, so it’s important that we bring

that point out and let everybody know.” 

zkoeske@tribpub.com 

Twitter @ZakKoeske 

Credit: Zak Koeske 
 
 


 
Between Sunday and Tuesday, the description Midlothian police gave for Jemel Roberson evolved from a “subject

with a gun” to “a brave man who was doing his best to end an active shooter situation.” 

Though police stopped short of an outright apology, the statement posted from Midlothian Chief Daniel Delaney at

midday Tuesday said the department was “completely saddened by this tragic incident” and offered “heartfelt

condolences” to the man’s friends and family. 

Delaney explained that when the earlier statement was issued, investigators were still figuring out what happened

and sorting out “conflicting reports” about the man who was killed. 

The latter comments, though, seemingly didn’t stop a growing hue and cry over the shooting by the unnamed

police officer of Roberson, who was working as a security guard at Manny’s. Police had responded to reports of

gunfire at the bar early Sunday and, according to a lawyer retained by his family, Roberson was subduing a suspect

when he was killed. 

On Tuesday afternoon, a group of protesters gathered outside the Midlothian police station seeking answers. 

“We are here to cry justice for Jemel Roberson because he can no longer speak,” said Eric Russell, a police

accountability activist with the Tree of Life Justice League. 

Though the turnout at the protest in unseasonably cold weather was small — about 20 people showed up — the

issues raised were echoed in countless social media postings and in media reports both in the U.S. and abroad. 

Most focused on race, since Roberson was African-American and the officer who shot him is white, Midlothian

police confirmed. Midlothian officials said Tuesday that the officer, a seven-year veteran with the department, has

been placed on paid leave and that the Illinois State Police are investigating. 

And many observers said the shooting appears to undermine a common perception — endorsed in various forms

by National Rifle Association officials as well as President Donald Trump — that having armed guards, or a “good

guy with a gun,” is an effective way to stem gun violence. 

“The president of the United States, he says the only way to stop a mass shooting is have an armed security

guard,” said Russell, standing in front of a group of protesters holding signs that read “Justice 4 Jemel!” and

Roberson’s picture. “But I guess what he really meant, ‘as long as that armed security guard is not black.’ ” 

Russell, who called Roberson a hero, said he considered the shooting a “race issue” and hoped his efforts would

start a national conversation about “police crime.” 

Delphine Cherry, of Hazel Crest, said she attended Tuesday’s gathering because she wanted the Midlothian officer

to be held accountable. Cherry, a member of the Illinois Council Against Handgun Violence, said she’d lost two

children to gun violence and believed police had “dropped the ball” by not solving her son’s killing six years ago. 

“I’m out here today to support (Roberson’s mother), because I don’t want the ball to be dropped on her,” Cherry

said. 

Russell and other activists called on Cook County State’s Attorney Kim Foxx to prosecute the officer. Foxx’s office

could not be reached for comment Tuesday. 

Later Tuesday, after the protest ended, Illinois State Police released a statement saying that, according to

preliminary findings, Roberson was wearing all black and did not have anything identifying him as a security guard.

That contradicts statements from Gregory Kulis, a lawyer who filed a civil rights lawsuit Monday on behalf of

Roberson’s family, who said Roberson wearing a hat with “security” printed on it. 

State police also said the officer shot Roberson after he was given several verbal commands to drop his weapon. 

Kulis has said witnesses reported that several yelled out to the officer that Roberson was a guard; the state police

statement does not address that. 

Kulis said that, in addition to security, Roberson worked as a church organist and lived alone on Chicago’s West

Side. A GoFundMe site set up to help pay for funeral costs said Roberson’s “love for God and his family were at the

forefront of his life.” It said his talents included music and basketball. He attended Lane Tech College Prep. 

As for what occurred inside the south suburban bar before dawn Sunday, though, details remain murky. 

Officials from the Cook County sheriff’s office and Robbins police have said that what started as a verbal

confrontation among several patrons escalated when one of them left briefly, returned with a pistol and began

shooting. 

Four other men were injured in the ensuing exchange of gunfire. 

According to Kulis, the attorney, a second man who was working security at Manny’s told him that the officer

jumped onto the bar and waved an assault rifle before running outside and fatally shooting Roberson. 

The second security guard, whom Kulis did not identify, claimed the officer also aimed a weapon at him and that

he screamed out, “I’m security! I’m security!” to stop him. 

Later Tuesday evening, Robbins Mayor Tyrone Ward addressed a small group of residents assembled at Village

Hall, asking them to pray for Roberson’s family but saying he couldn’t answer questions because of the ongoing

“Any time you lose a young person, it’s difficult. It’s very difficult,” Ward said. “Having a son of my own, being a

black man with a black son in a predominantly black town, you get it. You understand the dynamics of what’s

He did not criticize the Midlothian police officer’s actions but did say things might have turned out differently had

it been a Robbins officer who encountered Roberson. 

“Honestly, I wish it would have been one of our guys who came across that situation,” he said. “Why? Because they

may have been more familiar with security.” 

Ward spoke at what was supposed to be a regularly scheduled gathering of the village board. But the meeting was

canceled when none of the trustees showed up. Ward said he wasn’t sure if the absences were connected to the

Though shootings of security guards and off-duty police officers by law enforcement are fairly rare, they have

In 2009, an off-duty black New York City police officer wearing street clothes and holding his service weapon was

shot and killed by police as he chased a man who had broken into his car. 

In that same year, undercover officers in Brooklyn, N.Y., responding to a report of a bar fight shot and killed a 43-

year-old security guard who, police said, pointed a gun at them. 

A year earlier, in White Plains, N.Y., a black off-duty Mount Vernon officer who was holding an assault suspect at

gunpoint was fatally shot by a Westchester County officer. 

A 73-year-old night watchman at a recycling center was fatally shot by officers in 2012 in Florida after they spotted

him carrying a gun when they arrived in response to a call of an intruder. Police later said the man was not wearing

And in 2000, an off-duty black police sergeant in Rhode Island was shot and killed by two uniformed colleagues as

anything that identified him as a security guard. 

he tried to break up a fight in a parking lot. 

contributed. 

Chicago Tribune’s Matthew Walberg and John Keilman, Southtown’s Mike Nolan and The Associated Press

investigation. 

going on …” 

shooting. 

happened. 

Credit: Zak Koeske 
 
 

4/15/2019

Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberson Was To Blame For His Own Death | HuffPost




Log In

Sign Up

POLITICS  11/15/2018 02:07 pm ET | Updated Nov 15, 2018

Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel
Roberson Was To Blame For His Own
Death

Illinois state police say Roberson refused to put down his gun. Witnesses say
otherwise.

By Andy Campbell

There’s no question that the death of security guard Jemel Roberson was in grave error.

He was shot dead by a police oﬃcer on Sunday but should be taking a victory lap today: He 

was killed while subduing a suspect in a shooting at the bar where he worked, Manny’s Blue 

Room in Robbins, Illinois, outside Chicago.


Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberso…



   

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/illinois-police-fatal-shooting-black-security-guard-jemel-roberson_n_5bed9bb8e4b0dbb7ea6866a2?ncid=txtlnkusaolp00000616

1/5

4/15/2019

Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberson Was To Blame For His Own Death | HuffPost

One of the drunken patrons he told to leave earlier had re-entered with a gun and shot 
multiple people, and Roberson ― who was also armed ― tried to pin one of the men 
involved until police arrived.

“He had somebody on the ground with his knee in back, with his gun in his back like, ‘Don’t 

move,’” witness Adam Harris told WGN-TV. 

What happened next is still being debated between the Illinois State Police, witnesses and 
Roberson’s friends and family.

A responding Midlothian police oﬃcer shot Roberson, 26, who later died at a hospital. On 

Tuesday state police, tasked with independently investigating the shooting by the 

oﬃcer, stated in a press release that Roberson didn’t identify himself as a security guard and 

ignored the oﬃcer’s demands to drop his gun:

Upon his arrival, a Midlothian Police Oﬃcer encountered a subject in plain black 

clothing with no markings readily identifying him as a Security Guard, armed with a gun 

in the west parking lot. According to witness statements, the Midlothian Oﬃcer gave 

the armed subject multiple verbal commands to drop the gun and get on the ground 

before ultimately discharging his weapon and striking the subject.

On Wednesday, however, a witness had a diﬀerent story. Dorian Myrickes told The 

Associated Press that nobody ordered Roberson to put down his gun before he was shot and 

that he was wearing at the time a knit hat and black sweatshirt, both emblazoned with the 

word “security.” 

Myrickes was shot in the initial incident. From his hospital room, he spoke to the AP, which 

reported, “Myrickes says he had just been shot in the shoulder by a gunman inside Manny’s 

Blue Room in Robbins early Sunday when he saw the oﬃcer point his gun at the 26-year-old 

Roberson. He says he could hear people yelling that Roberson was a security guard. The 

oﬃcer then ﬁred multiple shots.”

One of Roberson’s friends from high school, Citlali Arroyo, told HuﬀPost that she was sad ― 
but not surprised ― to see police cast blame onto her “gentle giant” of a friend for his own 
death.



Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberso…



   

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/illinois-police-fatal-shooting-black-security-guard-jemel-roberson_n_5bed9bb8e4b0dbb7ea6866a2?ncid=txtlnkusaolp00000616

2/5

4/15/2019

Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberson Was To Blame For His Own Death | HuffPost

“We all know how these things go. I know that we’re all scared for what’s going to come 

next,” she said. “Generally, in the aftermath comes destruction of the person’s character, and 

we want to stop this from happening.”

Arroyo helped plan a vigil in Chicago on Friday for those who can’t make a family event for 

Roberson outside the city. It will be a peaceful aﬀair at their high school, Lane Tech, to honor 

Roberson as they remember him: the father of a 9-month-old boy, Tristan, for whom Roberson 

was working extra shifts to buy presents; a hero whose girlfriend is pregnant with their 

second child; a musician at several local churches he attended; a lawful man with dreams of 

becoming a police oﬃcer; a hard worker who helped his friends get through school.

“We both almost didn’t graduate, so we worked really hard to make it through together,” 

Arroyo said over the phone, through tears. “His character is just a warm, friendly, gentle giant. 

He was always so goofy. Friendly, kind and funny — those are the top three for anyone who 

knew him. He was always laughing or joking around.”

A GoFundMe campaign set up on behalf of Roberson’s family for his funeral costs reached 

Correction: An earlier version of this story erroneously stated that Tristan is 9 years old. He is 

Do you have information you want to share with HuﬀPost? Here’s how.

$140,000 by Thursday.

9 months old.

BEFORE YOU GO



Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberso…



   

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/illinois-police-fatal-shooting-black-security-guard-jemel-roberson_n_5bed9bb8e4b0dbb7ea6866a2?ncid=txtlnkusaolp00000616

3/5

4/15/2019

Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberson Was To Blame For His Own Death | HuffPost

Andy Campbell 
Senior Reporter, HuﬀPost

Suggest a correction

MORE:

Police Shooting

 

Illinois

 

Jemel Roberson

MOST SHARED

George Conway
Reveals The Key
Phrase To Watch
For In Full Mueller
Report

Trump On Notre
Dame Fire:
‘Perhaps Flying
Water Tankers
Could Be Used To
Put It Out’

Gymnast
Samantha Cerio
Thought
‘Something Was A
Little Wrong’ After
Fall

The Texas AG Says
Voter Fraud Is A
Big Problem. His
Cases Suggest
Otherwise.

Hungry And Horny
Alligators Are
Invading Streets,
Homes And Pools
In Florida

WHAT’S HOT

Kristen Bell Brings The
Fire For Icy ‘Game Of
Thrones’ Costume

Charges Dropped
Against Woman
Accused Of Assaulting
Kellyanne Conway At
Restaurant

Did ‘Game Of Thrones’
Just Burn Ed Sheeran’s
Cameo?

Keanu Reeves’
Photographs In GQ Are
One Big Thirst Trap For
Twitter



Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberso…



   

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/illinois-police-fatal-shooting-black-security-guard-jemel-roberson_n_5bed9bb8e4b0dbb7ea6866a2?ncid=txtlnkusaolp00000616

4/5

4/15/2019

Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberson Was To Blame For His Own Death | HuffPost

John Oliver Gets
Hollywood’s Biggest
Stars To Taunt Purdue
Over Opioid Crisis

Michelle Obama On
That Time She Broke
Royal Protocol With
Queen Elizabeth

The ‘Game Of Thrones’
Premiere Gave Us The
Bran Stark Memes We
Deserve

Conservatives Upset
‘The Good Fight’ Wants
You To Punch Nazis

ABOUT US

ADVERTISE

RSS

FAQ

User Agreement

Privacy Policy

About Our Ads

Careers

Comment Policy

Contact Us

Archive

HuﬀPost Press Room

Part of HuffPost News. ©2019 Verizon Media. All rights reserved.

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/illinois-police-fatal-shooting-black-security-guard-jemel-roberson_n_5bed9bb8e4b0dbb7ea6866a2?ncid=txtlnkusaolp00000616

5/5

 

 
If Beatrice Roberson ever has the chance to confront Midlothian police officer Ian Covey, she has just one question

for him: “Why did you feel the need to kill my son?” 

Roberson, speaking during a news conference Saturday in front of Manny’s Blue Room Lounge in Robbins, where

her 26-year-old son was fatally shot in November while working as a bar security guard, said she believes it’s

important for the officer and others involved to not only be identified but punished for their actions. 

“All of these police officers are responsible for what happened that night,” Roberson said. “No one should be able

to walk away from this.” 

Covey was identified Friday by Midlothian police and in an amended lawsuit filed by the Roberson family as the

officer who fired the shot that killed Jemel Roberson, of Chicago, Nov. 11 as he was detaining a person believed to

have been involved in a shooting incident at the bar. The officer fired despite the fact that Jemel Roberson was

wearing clothing that identified him as “security.” 

Beatrice Roberson said she needs to see justice done for her son, who had ambitions to become a police officer. 

“I’m doing this for my son,” she said. “I’m sure if our situations were reversed, he’d do the same thing to try to

protect me.” 

Roberson’s attorney, Gregory Kulis, said Saturday he thinks it is important for Covey be identified publicly.

Although he learned the officer’s identity several weeks ago, he waited until police confirmed it before adding it to

the lawsuit that had already been filed. 

The suit seeks “fair and reasonable compensatory and punitive damages” from Covey and the Midlothian police,

although Beatrice Roberson said she’s more concerned about protecting her late son’s image. 

She said it bothers her that her son was killed by a police officer, a profession Jemel Roberson wanted to pursue. 

“I would have wanted him to have any other job than that,” she said. 

“He wasn’t a criminal. He wasn’t a gang-banger,” Roberson said. “He was church-going. He always had a job. He

deserved better than this.” 

Gregory Tejada is a freelance reporter for the Daily Southtown. 

Credit: Gregory Tejeda 
 
 


 
Nov. 21--Robbins suspended the business license of the village bar where a Midlothian police officer fatally shot

security guard Jemel Roberson on Nov. 11. 

Following an administrative hearing Tuesday, the village board voted unanimously to suspend the business license

of Manny's Blue Room, 2911 S. Claire Blvd., until three conditions recommended by the village attorney are met. 

The bar's owners, Luxury US, Inc., must provide the village with all necessary ownership documents; obtain a valid

state liquor license; and develop security and operational plans to be reviewed and approved by the Robbins police

chief before it can reopen, the board agreed. 

something he could work on with the village. 

Robert McLaughlin, an attorney for the bar's owners, said he considered the conditions "fair and reasonable," and

McLaughlin and his client, Nakeea Smith, who he said was Manny's owner/operator, declined comment after the

hearing. 

Roberson » 

Commission. 

Robbins issued a business license and local liquor license to Luxury US in July, according to a petition for

revocation that village administrator Keith Freeman presented Tuesday. 

Judge denies motion requesting name of Midlothian officer who shot Jemel Roberson be released » 

Authorities seek possible witnesses to Robbins bar melee that led to police shooting of security guard Jemel

Luxury US, secretary of state records show, is registered to Nakeeh Buchanan-Smith and has a Riverdale address. 

The bar does not have a valid state liquor license, which is necessary to serve alcohol, records show. The state

liquor license held by the bar's former owners expired on Sept. 30, according to the Illinois Liquor Control

The Nov. 11 incident that began with shots fired inside the bar and ended with a Midlothian officer shooting

Roberson in the bar parking lot as he held a suspected bar shooter at gunpoint was not the first disturbance under

the new ownership, Freeman said. 

Police responded to a call for reckless discharge of a firearm and a fight in progress on Aug. 12, and to the assault

and battery of a bar patron on Oct. 28, according to his petition. There also had been incidents where police

responded to the bar prior to the current ownership, he said. 

McLaughlin argued that Manny's had not been cited, fined or reprimanded in any way for the prior incidents, and

thus the revocation of its business license was not warranted. 

Residents also spoke favorably on the bar's behalf, with one woman calling it a community "outlet." 

"It's not only a black business that has been around for years, but it's also an outlet to a lot of us," said Latoya

Sims, who claimed security at Manny's has improved under new ownership. 

"It used to be worse. I refused to go up in there prior because it wasn't secure enough," Sims said. "But now, it's

secure to me. I feel safe in there because he has made a plan, he has done what he was supposed to do. He's done

his due diligence to bring in security for the patrons that like to actually go in there and use it as an outlet." 

Darrell Mitchell, another village resident, said officials needed to consider the economic impact that shutting down

a local business would have on Robbins. 

"We want to make sure that we're not shutting down businesses that are bringing in revenue," he said. "We know

that a loss of any business will be a los of property tax revenue, sales tax revenue, payroll revenue and these are

Liquor laws &regulations; Assaults; Guards; Tax revenues

things that we need in this village." 

zkoeske@tribpub.com 

CREDIT: By Zak Koeske 
 
 


 
Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, D-Texas, issued the following statement on the shooting death of Jemel Roberson, armed

security guard, by the Midlothian Police Department: 

"Over the weekend, in Midlothian, Illinois, just outside of Chicago, Jemel Roberson was doing his job, as an armed

security guard, at a bar early Sunday morning when he came upon a disturbance at his place of employment. 

"The disturbance turned dangerous, and individuals opened fire and Roberson returned fire. Before long, Roberson

had contained the situation, including one armed individual, and detained the culprit while he waited for law

enforcement. 

"Responding officers immediately shot and killed Roberson, mistaking him for the assailant and in the process

ignoring calls from eyewitnesses alerting the officers of the deadly mistake they were about to make. 

"The series of events that led to Roberson's death by police is tragic. Roberson's bravery was not recognized;

instead, he was a good guy with a gun who was murdered. 

"This reflexive decision by Midlothian authorities to shoot first and ask questions later is a dynamic all too familiar

"This dynamic is yet another example of the mistrust that members of the African American community feel when

"I am pleased to learn that the matter has been referred to the State Police Public Integrity Task Force and I look

forward to learning the results of this investigation, to learn how this happened and how it may be prevented in the

In the meanwhile, I hope that Jemel Roberson's family can, in this moment of grief, find peace and that justice is

delivered so that Jemel's death was not in vain." 

to African Americans. 

interacting with law enforcement. 

MSTRUCK-6518361 MSTRUCK 
 
 


 
The Midlothian police officer who fatally shot security guard Jemel Roberson on Sunday at a bar in Robbins has

been placed on administrative leave, officials told the Daily Southtown on Tuesday. 

The officer, who has not been identified, has worked for the department for seven years and is a member of the

South Suburban Emergency Response Team, officials said. 

He also is white, Midlothian police Chief Dan Delaney said in an email Tuesday, according to The Associated Press.

Roberson was black. 

was also named in the suit. 

On Monday, a lawsuit was filed against the Midlothian police officer, alleging he used excessive force when he

shot the armed on-duty security guard after responding to a shooting incident at the bar. The village of Midlothian

The federal lawsuit claims the unnamed officer shot Roberson while he was outside Manny’s Blue Room, 2911 S.

Claire Blvd., after Roberson had apprehended one of the perpetrators police were seeking. 

The shooting was “unprovoked,” “unjustified” and “unreasonable,” the lawsuit alleges. 

Roberson, 26, was pronounced dead at a hospital, a Cook County sheriff’s office spokeswoman said. The Cook

County medical examiner’s office ruled his death a homicide from multiple gunshot wounds. 

Delaney issued a statement Tuesday explaining why his initial statement about the shooting Sunday did not

specify that Roberson was a security guard and not a suspect, attributing it to what he said were “conflicting

reports” at the time. 

shooter situation at Manny’s Blue Room. 

He said he’d since learned that, “Jemel Roberson was a brave man who was doing his best to end an active

“The Midlothian Police Department is completely saddened by this tragic incident and we give our heartfelt

condolences to Jemel, his family and his friends. There are no words that can be expressed as to the sorrow his

family is dealing with,” Delaney’s statement concludes. 

The chief said he could not comment further on the incident, which is under investigation by the Illinois State

Police’s Public Integrity Task Force, but that he intended to release an additional statement in the coming days

after the agency concluded its inquiry and “all of the facts” are known. 

Officials said Roberson had been working security at Manny’s early Sunday when a verbal altercation involving

several men happened. The incident escalated when one of the men opened fire inside the bar around 4 a.m.,

Several police agencies responded to the scene including Robbins, Midlothian and the Cook County sheriff’s office. 

One of the responding Midlothian officers “encountered a subject with a gun and was involved in an Officer

involved shooting,” according to a statement released Sunday by Delaney. 

The man shot by police, sheriff’s office spokeswoman Sophia Ansari said, “turned out to be a guy working security

police said. 

for the bar.” 

She said Roberson was armed, but that it was unclear why an officer had shot him. Ansari said he had a valid

firearm owner’s identification card and was licensed by the state to work armed security. 

Four other people were shot in addition to Roberson, but he was the only one shot by police, Ansari said. The other

shooting victims, including the man believed to have initially opened fire inside the bar, are all expected to survive,

she said. 

opened fire on him. 

The man suspected of firing the gun is still in the hospital and has not yet been charged, Ansari said. 

MORE COVERAGE: Security guard killed by Midlothian police officer, 4 injured in Robbins bar gunfight » 

Gregory Kulis, an attorney for Roberson’s family, said Roberson —dressed in all black and wearing a “security hat”

—had apprehended one of the men responsible for the bar shooting and was holding him down when the officer

Kulis said he did not want to speculate about why the officer may have shot Roberson. The suit alleges the

officer’s actions were “intentional, willful and wanton,” and it demands $1 million in damages. 

The attorney said Roberson was a “churchgoing guy” who lived alone on the West Side of Chicago and served as a

church organist, in addition to working security at Manny’s. A GoFundMe page created in Roberson’s honor for the

purpose of paying burial expenses has already raised more than $20,000. 

It describes Roberson as “a young man who was greatly loved by all who knew him,” and says he was a gifted

basketball player and musician. “His love for God and his family were at the forefront of his life,” the page said. 

On Monday, a Lane Tech College Prep Twitter account tweeted a remembrance of Roberson, identifying him as a

2010 graduate of the Roscoe Village high school and member of its basketball team. 

“Jemel had a big smile and a bigger heart,” the post reads. “You will be missed.” 

Friends and family held a vigil outside Manny’s late Monday afternoon to honor Roberson, speak about his

character and express their dismay over the incident, which many said they connected to his race. 

“This was not reckless policing, this was homicidal policing,” one man said. “They saw a black man with a gun. If

he did not have a gun, his black skin made him a weapon. 

“As a community, we demand respectful engagement. We want the police to treat our people with just a certain

amount of dignity and respect. They patrol the black community like some ... Gestapo being judge, jury and

Harvey Ald. Keith Price, who attended the vigil because he said he believed it was important for elected officials to

speak out in such situations, called on State’s Attorney Kim Foxx to open an investigation into the shooting. 

“This could have been my son. This could have been any one of our sons,” he said of Roberson. “So Kim Foxx, do

the right thing, open up a full out investigation. That’s what you got elected for.” 

The state’s attorney’s office did immediately respond to a request for comment. 

The Illinois State Police, which is already investigating the Midlothian officer’s actions, declined to comment on its

executioner.” 

investigation. 

The Robbins Department of Inspectional Services and Mayor Tyrone Ward have ordered Manny’s to temporarily

close pending the outcome of “a full examination of the facility.” 

“The village of Robbins sends its deepest condolences to the family of Jemel Roberson for this unfortunate

tragedy,” Ward said. “We ask that the Robbins community continue to keep the Roberson family lifted in prayer

during this trying time.” 

zkoeske@tribpub.com 

Twitter @ZakKoeske 

Credit: Zak Koeske 
 
 


 
Authorities are seeking to identify three people who they say may have information about the exchange of gunfire

at a Robbins bar that led to the police shooting of security guard Jemel Roberson. 

No charges have been filed in connection with the shooting that prompted police to respond to Manny’s Blue

Room Lounge at about 4 a.m. on Nov. 11. On Tuesday, the Cook County sheriff’s office, which is investigating the

initial shooting, sent out three photos of individuals who they said were at Manny’s at or around the time of the

Sheriff’s detectives are interested in speaking to the three people who are pictured, officials said. Anyone with

information about them is asked to contact investigators at 708-865-4896. 

Authorities have said that gunfire broke out in the bar after what started as a verbal argument between patrons.

Four people were injured, including a man who identified himself as another security guard. 

Roberson, 26, was subduing a suspect in that incident when one of the officers who responded to the scene fatally

shooting. 

shot him. 

The shooting of Roberson by an officer from neighboring Midlothian is being investigated separately by Illinois

State Police. The officer is on paid leave during that investigation; a judge on Monday denied a request from a

lawyer for Roberson’s family to release the officer’s name. 

mwalberg@chicagotribune.com 

Twitter @mattwalberg1 

Credit: Matthew Walberg 
 
 


 
Nov. 15--Jemel Roberson was wearing a cap and sweatshirt that had the word "Security" on them when he was

fatally shot by a Midlothian police officer while Roberson was trying to subdue a suspect early Sunday at a

Robbins bar, a man who said he was working with him at the bar told the Tribune. 

Dorian Myrickes, 43, who said he was injured during the chaotic early-morning incident at the bar, also said that the

Midlothian officer did warn Roberson to drop his gun but fired at him within "not even five seconds" of the warning. 

Authorities investigating the shooting declined to address Myrickes' accounts of the shooting or confirm that he

But Myrickes, who spoke Thursday morning from a suburban hospital bed, said another officer at the scene

rebuked the Midlothian cop after Roberson's shooting. 

"One cop ... he said, 'Man, you didn't have to do that, you didn't have to do that. We know these guys. We told you

they're security,' " said Myrickes, who said he was close to passing out from his injury when he heard that

Myrickes also said Roberson initially sought assistance from the Midlothian officer to help him subdue a suspect

from an earlier shooting that had brought several police officers to the scene. 

Myrickes' description of what Roberson was wearing differs from details from an Illinois State Police preliminary

investigation that said Roberson was wearing "plain black clothing with no markings readily identifying him as a

was present. 

statement. 

Security Guard." 

Myrickes' account also differs in one aspect from what he earlier told The Associated Press. The AP reported that

Myrickes said he never heard the officer tell Roberson to drop his gun. In a later interview with the Tribune,

Myrickes said he did hear the officer command Roberson to drop his weapon before shooting him seconds later. 

Myrickes could not be reached again later to clarify the discrepancy. 

State police, citing witness statements, said Wednesday that Roberson was told "multiple" times to drop his gun. 

Myrickes' account adds fuel to the controversy that has arisen over the shooting of Roberson, who is black, by the

Midlothian officer, who is white and has since been placed on leave. The shooting took place while the officer and

others responded to a "shots fired" call at Manny's Blue Room Lounge on Claire Boulevard in Robbins. 

In his interview with the Tribune, Myrickes said he and Roberson were part of the six-person security team working

at Manny's on Saturday night and into Sunday morning. Myrickes said he and Roberson were initially working

unarmed as the inside crew but that he believes Roberson either had a suspect's gun when he was shot by police

or had at some point retrieved his own weapon from vehicle parked outside. 

Myrickes said a fight broke out between two groups of men and that he and Roberson were trying to defuse the

situation. 

"So we got, like, four people out the front door, and we were trying to get eight people out the side door," Myrickes

said from his hospital room. "They were becoming very aggressive and started threatening our lives. We get them

out the door, we tell them we're going to make sure they get their people out safely, that we didn't mean no harm,

we just got to break up the altercation. 

"Next thing you know, one of the guys pulled a gun out and started shooting," Myrickes said, adding that security

guards working outside the club make sure male patrons get "patted down pretty good" before entering the bar. He

said he believed the shooter either stashed a gun outside or someone outside passed it to him. 

Myrickes said he and Roberson were near the doorway but still inside when the shooting started. But before they

could shut the door, he said, a second person started shooting. 

"By this time, I didn't even realize I was hit. I stumbled and I fell," he said, adding that a young woman told him to

get up or he was going to die. 

Myrickes said he could hear someone in the group of men that had started shooting yelling, "Go get the blitz,"

which meant they wanted to get a bigger weapon. 

"Everyone started panicking, running in different directions," he said. "I stumbled out the front door. ... That's when I

ran into the (Midlothian) police officer (who) had the AR-15, and he pointed it straight at my head, he said, 'Put your

hands up.'" 

Myrickes said he told the officer he was a security guard and not to shoot him. 

"He comes over, puts the flashlight in my face and said, 'You've been hit,'" Myrickes said. "He pulled my sweatshirt

back and told me I was hit with a gun. He was so aggressive, and I said, 'Let me go back in the club and warn them

that a cop's coming in with a gun.' 

bartender, shouting, 'Get on the ground!'" 

"He (runs) past me so fast -- I made it back into the club -- and he jumps up on the bar, points the gun at the

Myrickes said there were other police officers already in the bar at that point but that none were helping Roberson

with the suspect from the earlier shooting, whom he was holding at gunpoint facedown on the ground just outside

the side door. 

"He was yelling (to Roberson to) drop the gun," Myrickes said. "Jemel said, 'I'm security. You need to handcuff this

guy, get (him) under control.' We don't want the guy to flip over and take the gun from Jemel." 

Myrickes said that from the time the officer ordered Roberson to drop the gun to the time the officer fired the first

shot was "not even five seconds." 

"The first shot goes in (Roberson's) leg," Myrickes said. "(The officer) waves the gun across the bar, everybody's

like, 'Whoa, whoa,' and then (the officer) shoots (Roberson) again. I saw Jemel get hit a second time in the side." 

Myrickes said he then began to pass out but heard another cop in the bar rebuke the officer who shot Roberson. 

"One cop, black cop with glasses, he said, 'Man, you didn't have to do that, you didn't have to do that. We know

these guys. We told you they're security.'" 

Myrickes said he didn't recognize the officer who opened fire or the officer that gave the reprimand. 

said there were maybe four or five other police officers in the bar at the time Roberson was shot. 

Official sources have not addressed many aspects of Myrickes' account, including how many officers were on the

scene, whether the officer who shot Roberson used an AR-15 or whether another officer admonished the

Midlothian cop for shooting Roberson. 

The Cook County medical examiner's office has confirmed that Roberson died of multiple gunshot wounds. 

Myrickes said he believed the man Roberson was subduing was one of the men who opened fire on them, but he

did not know whether the gun Roberson was holding was his own or one he had taken away from the shooter. 

"Jemel and I weren't armed that night," he said. "Jemel leaves his bulletproof vest and gun in the car. ... Jemel may

have had time to go get his gun out of his car when the fight started brewing. He did everything right. He didn't

deserve to get shot." 

disrespectful." 

Myrickes said he and Roberson had been working together at the club for a while. 

"He was a gentle giant," Myrickes said. "He would always say 'sir' or 'ma'am.' Even if he was kicking someone out,

he would always say, 'Hey, go home and sober up and come back and party with us the next day.' He was never

Myrickes said he was shot twice in the shoulder and that one of his lungs is collapsed. He said doctors are

contemplating surgery to repair the lung. 

His choked up with emotion when he recalled hearing that Roberson was dead. 

"My brother came to the (hospital) room Monday and told me," he said. "I was hurt, man. The guy was 26. This guy

was trying to do everything the right way." 

mwalberg@chicagotribune.com 

CREDIT: By Matthew Walberg 
 
 


 
CHICAGO (AP) - A police officer fatally shot an armed security guard who was wearing a hat with "security"

emblazoned across the front and holding a man down following a shooting inside the suburban Chicago bar where

the guard worked, says an attorney for the guard's family who filed a federal lawsuit.  

Jemel Roberson, 26, was pronounced dead shortly after being taken to a hospital early Sunday following the

shooting at Manny's Blue Room in Robbins, just south of Chicago. Four other people were shot and wounded,

including a man who authorities believe fired a gun before officers arrived, Cook County sheriff's spokeswoman

Sophia Ansari said.  

When police arrived at the scene, Roberson was holding "somebody on the ground with his knee in his back, with

his gun in his back," witness Adam Harris told WGN-TV.  

"Everybody is screaming out, 'He's a security guard,'" Harris said.  

Roberson, a father of a 9-month-old boy, was licensed to carry a firearm, Ansari said.  

Charges were pending against the man who investigators believe fired the initial shots during a dispute. His name

has yet to be released, and he remained hospitalized Monday, Ansari said.  

Investigators said the initial gunfire was reported around 4 a.m. Sunday. An officer responding from nearby

Midlothian encountered and shot "a subject with a gun," Midlothian Police Chief Daniel Delaney said in a

statement. The person was later identified as Roberson.  

No details have been released about the officer. Roberson, who was black, was the only person killed. The other

four people who were shot suffered wounds that weren't considered life-threatening, Ansari said.  

Attorney Gregory Kulis filed a civil rights lawsuit seeking more than $1 million on behalf of Roberson's mother,

Beatrice Roberson. He said Jemel Roberson was dressed in black but wearing a hat with the word "security" when

Kulis also echoed witness reports that Roberson was holding down another man outside the bar when the officer

The Rev. Marvin Hunter said Roberson was "an upstanding young man" and a promising keyboard player at his and

Roberson was trying to "get enough money together for a deposit on a new apartment," said Hunter, the great-

uncle of Laquan McDonald, a black teenager fatally shot by a white Chicago police officer in a high-profile 2014

Roberson also had hopes of someday becoming a police officer, according to his son's mother.  

"This was going to be my baby's first Christmas with his dad and now he's going to miss out on everything," said

he was shot.  

arrived and shot him.  

several other area churches.  

case.  

Avontea Boose.  

Illinois State Police are handling the investigation into Roberson's shooting. The agency said it would not

comment on the investigation until it is completed.  

Credit: By DON BABWIN, Associated Press 

 
 


 
Kanye West is doing his part to help the family of Jemel Roberson, the security guard who was fatally shot by a

police officer in Chicago earlier this month while he was detaining a suspected gunman.  

West donated $150,000 to a GoFundMe page set up by Roberson's family to raise money for his funeral, with

GoFundMe representative Bart Jackson confirming West's donation to USA TODAY.  

As of Monday morning, the GoFundMe had raised over $310,000, more than double the page's goal of $150,000.  

"The money that has been raised has gone far beyond the original goal," a note on the GoFundMe page reads. "This

will greatly support his family’s needs during this tragic time. " 

USA TODAY has reached out to GoFundMe for comment.  

After pledging in an Oct. 30 tweet to distance himself from politics, West has continued donating money to causes,

including a $126,460 contribution to Amara Enyia, a left-leaning candidate running for mayor in West’s hometown

of Chicago, per Illinois State Board of Elections records.  

West, who famously visited President Trump in the Oval Office in October, announced he was stepping away from

politics after Candace Owens, the communications director for the conservative group Turning Point USA,

incorrectly suggested that West was involved in designing apparel for the “Blexit" movement, which encourages

black voters to stop supporting Democratic candidates.  

More: West gives progressive mayoral candidate $126,000 after 'distancing' himself from politics 

West's most recent donation comes after Robertson's Nov. 11 death. Roberson, 26, was working at Manny’s Blue

Room in Robbins, Illinois, when a dispute involving several men broke out, and one of the men opened fire inside

the bar, according to Sam Randall, a Cook County Sheriff’s Office spokesman.  

Roberson apprehended the gunman outside the bar and was waiting for police help when an officer from the

neighboring town of Midlothian arrived and opened fire on Roberson, shooting and killing him, according to

witnesses and a federal lawsuit filed by Roberson’s mother.  

Original story: Police officer near Chicago fatally shot security guard who was detaining a suspect 

More: Family demands police release name of cop who shot black security guard 

Aamer Madhani contributed to this report.  
 
 


 
It is no longer news that black people are constantly murdered by police in the US. The recent death of a security

guard slain by the police deeply touched Kanye West and he has taken a tremendous step to support his family. 

West heard the story of Jemel Roberson who was shot by police after stopping a drunken man with a gun and

decided to do whatever he could to lessen the burden on his family. West donated $150,000 (N54.6 million)to

Roberson’s family on Friday. There was a page set up to raise $10,000 (N3.64m) for the Roberson’s family. 

According to TMZ, Roberson was working as a security guard at a bar where some drunk clients were asked to

leave because of their conduct. One of the customers returned with a firearm and opened fire. 

Jemel Roberson. Photo: KCRG 

According to reports, Roberson fired a few shots and overpowered the assailant and held him at gunpoint. But on

the arrival of the police who shot Robberson to death on arrival. 

Copyright ©2018 Guardian Newspapers. All Rights Reserved. Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info). 
 
 


 
Jemel Roberson couldn't wait for his son's first Christmas. 

With a 9-month-old boy and another baby on the way, the 26-year-old security guard was working extra shifts to

buy gifts for his son and his child's mother, family attorney Lee Merritt said. 

During one of his shifts last weekend, a gunman started shooting up Manny's Blue Room, a bar in suburban

Chicago. Witnesses said Roberson bravely stopped the shooter and pinned him to the ground. 

But shortly later, a Midlothian police officer shot and killed the security guard, leaving the mother of their child in

shambles. 

"A family member called me and told me. ... I just broke down crying in the bathroom. For a long time, I was in the

bathroom," said Avontae Boose, who's pregnant with the couple's second child. 

Their 9-month-old son Tristan is too young to understand what happened. But he knows his father is missing. 

"He's just been calling (for) his dad," Boose said Thursday. 

Many community members are demanding answers as to why Roberson was killed. One major point of contention

is whether Roberson was wearing anything with "security" written on it. 

While witnesses said the guard was wearing clothes that clearly identified him as "security," Illinois State Police,

the agency now leading the investigation, said Roberson was wearing "plain black clothing with no markings

readily identifying him as a Security Guard." 

with his gun in his back like, 'Don't move.' " 

Witness Adam Harris told CNN affiliate WGN that Roberson "had somebody on the ground ... with his knee in back,

Merritt lauded Roberson as "the quintessential good guy with a gun" for stopping an active shooter. "But he still

had to face the reality of being a black man in America," Merritt said. 

Illinois State Police described the events differently. 

"According to witness statements, the Midlothian Officer gave the armed subject multiple verbal commands to

drop the gun and get on the ground before ultimately discharging his weapon and striking" the security guard,

Midlothian Police Chief Daniel Delaney described the shooting as "the equivalent of a 'blue on blue,' friendly fire

Illinois State Police said in a statement. 

incident." 

The Roberson family's attorney disagreed. 

"If this was a case where they saw this as a friendly fire, as if a police officer was shot, then this would be handled

much differently," Merritt said. "There would be more transparency." 

Specifically, Merritt said authorities should identify the officer. 

"It's important to put that name and face out in the public spectrum because it allows the community to report if

this officer has a history of brutality," he said. "That information certainly becomes relevant for any future criminal

proceedings." 

Midlothian Police Chief Daniel Delaney has not identified the officer, but said he is a white male who has worked

with the department for about four years. Per standard policy, the officer is on paid administrative leave pending

the outcome of the state police investigation. 

"What we have also learned is Jemel Roberson was a very brave man who was doing his best to end an active

shooter situation at Manny's Blue Room," Delaney said in a statement Wednesday. 

"The Midlothian Police Department is completely saddened by this tragic incident and we give our heartfelt

condolences to Jemel, his mother, his entire family and his friends. There are no words that can be expressed as to

Boose, now grappling with the reality of raising two children without their father, is already thinking about what she

"I'm going to tell them when they get older -- when they get real older -- what happened to their father. That he was

the sorrow his family is dealing with." 

will tell her children about their dad. 

"He was a good father. He was a hero," Boose said. 

a hero, and he saved a lot of people." 
 
 


 
Feb. 05--Huddled in the parking lot of Manny's Blue Room Lounge in Robbins, where moments earlier a white

Midlothian police officer opened fire on a black security guard who had subdued a shooting suspect at gunpoint,

several onlookers shouted angrily at a wall of police officers who stood between them and the security guard's

lifeless body that lay uncovered on the cold pavement. 

"Your man shot my man. The police shot security. That's what happened," a distraught Manny's security guard told

an officer in an exchange captured by police body camera and obtained by the Daily Southtown. "We have a ... vest

on and we getting shot. It's ... stupid." 

A series of 15 dashboard camera, body camera and recovered cellphone videos that depict the torrent of raw

emotions that deluged witnesses of the Jemel Roberson shooting were released by the Cook County sheriff's

office in response to a Freedom of Information Act request. 

The videos, which are the first images from the Nov. 11 incident to be released publicly, do not contain footage of

Midlothian police Officer Ian Covey shooting Roberson or the events that immediately preceded it because the

sheriff's office does not possess such footage, chief policy officer Cara Smith said. 

The video release does, however, include two brief cell phone clips filmed inside the bar shortly before the interior

shooting that prompted a large police response, as well as longer videos taken in the parking lot after Roberson

was shot, primarily from the vantage of sheriff's police. 

Smith said the agency released the videos now, more than two months after the shooting, because it had

determined that "under state law, and in the interests of transparency," the videos could now be released to the

The sheriff's office, which is investigating the bar shooting that brought police officers from multiple departments

rushing to the scene that night, said it had no comment on its ongoing criminal investigation, which has yet to

public. 

yield any arrests. 

The Illinois State Police, whose Public Integrity Task Force is investigating Roberson's shooting, did not

immediately provide comment on the sheriff's release of the videos. 

State police have thus far refused to release any videos of the incident in their possession or any other evidence

collected from the scene, arguing in court that law enforcement investigative privilege entitled them to withhold

the information until the conclusion of their investigation. 

The video clips provided by the sheriff's office portray a frenzied and disordered scene where witnesses, infuriated

by what they had seen, lash out at police as officers, many of whom arrived after Roberson was shot, attempt to

preserve the crime scene and assuage distressed witnesses with varying degrees of tact. 

In some frames, officers are seen performing chest compressions on Roberson, while other clips show the security

guard's lifeless body lying uncovered on the ground with no one appearing to tend to him. 

Some bystanders sobbed. Others called Covey "racist." Still others begged for answers. 

"Somebody gotta make sense of this for me, bro," one man pleaded. "Somebody gotta make sense of this." 

One security guard who was working alongside Roberson told police that a man entered the bar's side door and

fired about five shots. He said security went outside and returned fire, striking the gunman. 

"Everything was clear. Everything was down," the guard told police in one clip, explaining that Roberson had

subdued the bar shooter and was getting things under control before police shot him. 

The security guard said Covey came out the bar's side entrance and was pointing his assault rifle wildly when he

spotted Roberson holding the offender on the ground at gunpoint and told him to drop his gun. 

"I'm telling (Covey), he workin' with us, cool out. He's working with us," the security guard said. "(Covey) shot him.

Four or five times. After we told him he's with us. 

"Did he not see us with vests on, bro?" the guard continued, raising his voice. "Why would I have a vest on, bro?

This . . . ain't for fun." 

A few minutes later, as the standoff between police and anguished witnesses continued to intensify, one of the

officers pulled the same security guard aside in an effort to calm him down. 

"I don't need nobody else getting hurt, man," the officer said to him. "We just need to get the truth outta this... 

"If this was bogus, we want the (officer) to be held accountable...You gotta make yourself a credible witness, not a

hostile witness. You get what I'm saying? I need you to calm down." 

The officer then explained that he and his colleagues showed up after Roberson was shot and didn't know what

happened, but were trying to get to the bottom of it. 

"I'm not out here to hurt you, you know that. I can't speak for everybody, but we ain't out here to hurt you," he said.

"I don't really have the words to give you, but man, just keep your mind right, man. Please." 

"It was wrong, bro," the security guard replied. "It was wrong, bro. It was wrong." 

The wrenching witness testimony captured on video is not reflected in the Illinois State Police statement about the

shooting released a couple days after the incident. 

The agency's statement, which contained an account that is attributed to "witness statements," said only that a

Midlothian officer, since identified as Covey, gave Roberson "multiple verbal commands" to drop his gun and get

on the ground before fatally shooting him. 

It makes no mention of security guards advising Covey that Roberson was one of them or that witnesses shared

significant distress over what they perceived to be a bad shooting. 

"This is the (stuff) that I don't like," one witness told an officer afterward during a conversation recorded on police

body camera. "The (people) that started this ..., they get away with it. And the (person) that's here to protect us, he

A spokeswoman for the state police did not immediately respond to questions about the agency's failure to

incorporate witness accounts critical of the officer's behavior in their initial news release and said that, for now, the

agency was not planning to provide any further information about Roberson's shooting. 

gets shot! What?!" 

zkoeske@tribpub.com 

CREDIT: By Zak Koeske 
 
 


 
Dec. 18--A Midlothian police officer who fatally shot security guard Jemel Roberson has been subjected to death

threats, with police patrols assigned to his house, according to the village. 

The disclosure came in a Dec. 13 letter from the village to the state attorney general's office in response to a Daily

Southtown request under the state's Freedom of Information Act for information about the officer. 

Roberson was shot in the early morning hours of Nov. 11 at Manny's Blue Room in Robbins, where he was working

security, when a fight broke out and shots were fired. 

Police from multiple jurisdictions responded to the shooting, including a white officer from neighboring Midlothian,

who shot Roberson in the parking lot as he held one of the suspected bar shooters on the ground at gunpoint,

according to witnesses. 

attorney general. 

The Southtown is seeking police reports generated by Midlothian police related to the shooting, as well as the

officer's personnel files. The Southtown is continuing to seek the information through FOIA requests with the

In its response to the chief of the attorney general's public access bureau, Midlothian notes the "officer has very

real fear for his life if he is identified at this time." 

The village cited posts on social media, including the police department's Facebook page, and said that apart from

death threats, there have been "intentional attempts to disclose (the officer's) home address." 

MORE COVERAGE: At funeral for slain security guard Jemel Roberson, his mom says 'justice will be served, but in

State police are investigating the shooting, and the officer is on administrative leave pending the outcome of that

"Demands for the officer's termination, prosecution and incarceration have been proposed regardless of what the

investigation and evidence determine," Midlothian's letter to the attorney general's office states. 

On Nov. 20, U.S. District Court Judge Joan Lefkow denied a motion by Roberson's family seeking to force the

disclosure of the officer. The matter is scheduled to be back before the judge on Jan. 18. 

In denying the Southtown's request for police reports and supplemental files pertaining to the shooting, Midlothian

notes that such information is in the hands of state police, and such a disclosure would jeopardize the

God's time' » 

investigation. 

investigation. 

"The specific reasons disclosure would compromise the investigation involves witnesses who have yet to be

interviewed and suspects involved in the incident that have yet to be arrested," the letter reads. 

Witnesses and Roberson's family said that Roberson was wearing clothing identifying him as a security guard,

although a preliminary investigation by state police disputes that. State police said the Midlothian officer gave

Roberson "multiple verbal commands" to drop his gun and get on the ground, but witnesses said the officer started

firing at Roberson before giving him an adequate chance to respond to the verbal commands. 

Midlothian police later issued a statement offering condolences to Roberson's family and calling the shooting "the

equivalent of a 'blue on blue,' friendly fire incident." 

mnolan@southtownstar.com 

CREDIT: By Mike Nolan 
 
 


 
ROBBINS, Ill. –Police in suburban Chicago on Tuesday called the controversial shooting death of a black security

guard by a police officer a “tragic incident,” and praised the guard for exhibiting bravery for subduing a suspect

moments before the officer fired on him.  

Jemel Roberson, 26, had apprehended a man who allegedly fired a gun inside a Robbins, Illinois, bar early Sunday

when he was gunned down by a police officer responding from neighboring Midlothian.  

Roberson had been awaiting police help when he was shot multiple times by the officer. He was wearing a hat

emblazoned with the word "Security" when he was shot, said attorney Gregory Kulis, an attorney for Roberson's

mother.  

“What we have learned is Jemel Roberson was a brave man who was doing his best to end an active shooter

situation at Manny’s Blue Room,” Midlothian Police Chief Daniel Delaney said in a statement.  

“The Midlothian Police Department is completely saddened by this tragic incident and we give our heartfelt

condolences to Jemel, his family and his friends. There are no words that can be expressed as to the sorrow his

family is dealing with. ” 

Roberson, who was armed, had apprehended the suspect outside the bar and had him pinned to the ground when

the officer arrived. Witnesses say they shouted at the officer that Roberson was a security guard.  

The Illinois State Police Public Integrity Task Force is investigating the officer-involved shooting. The agency said

in a statement late Tuesday that witnesses they've interviewed also heard the officer give Roberson "multiple

verbal commands to drop the gun and get on the ground before ultimately discharging his weapon and striking the

The agency added that Roberson was wearing plain black clothing "with no markings readily identifying him as a

Police have not released the name of the officer, who was placed on administrative leave following the shooting.  

More: Police officer near Chicago fatally shot security guard who was detaining a suspect 

More: Chicago Police Officer Jason Van Dyke guilty of second-degree murder in 2014 shooting death of 17-year-old

The incident has drawn national headlines, outrage and questions about whether race factored into the officer’s

decision to open fire. Roberson was black. The officer is white.  

In an initial statement on the incident, Delaney referred to Roberson as "a subject with a gun. " 

Delaney said Tuesday there were "conflicting reports" immediately following the shooting about whether Roberson

was the suspect or a security guard.  

"Since, we have learned that the subject our officer shot was in fact security guard, Jemel Roberson," he said.  

The Cook County Sheriff's Office is investigating the shooting inside the bar.  

subject. " 

security guard. " 

Laquan McDonald 

The suspect had not been charged as of Tuesday night.  

Authorities say Roberson was working at the bar when a dispute broke out among several men. The incident

escalated when one of the men opened fire inside the bar.  

Illinois State Police Sgt. Jacqueline Cepeda said there is no timeline for completing the investigation of the police

shooting. She declined to say whether the officer was wearing a body camera or if the incident was captured by

any other video surveillance.  

Cepeda said the task force will present its findings to the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office prosecution

bureau, which will determine whether the shooting was legally justified or if charges against the officer are

merited.  

–seeking more than $1 million in damages.  

The mother of Roberson has filed a federal lawsuit against Midlothian and the officer –identified only as John Doe

She called the officer’s action “unprovoked” and an “excessive and unreasonable” use of force.  

Roberson suffered multiple gunshot wounds, according to the Cook County Medical Examiner’s Office.  

The incidents comes after former Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke was found guilty by a jury of second-

degree murder and aggravated battery last month for the 2014 shooting death of Laquan McDonald.  

That controversial incident –police video showed McDonald was armed with a small knife but was walking away

from police when Van Dyke fired 16 times at the black teen –spurred protest and political tumult in the nation's

third-largest city.  

the same consequence as Van Dyke. " 

The Rev. Michael Pfleger, a Chicago pastor and civil rights leader, said Tuesday the Midlothian officer "must face

"He must be Indicted. . . . . and White Society's "Fear of Black Men" must END!!!!" Pfleger posted on Twitter.  

Robbins Mayor Tyrone Ward said it was crucial that there is a "clean and thorough" investigation. He also urged

the community of 5,500 residents to remain patient while the state police conducts its investigation.  

"I wish it had been one of our (officers) who came across the situation," Ward said. "They may have been more

familiar with security (at the bar). That's my honest opinion. "  

George Brewton, 28, a Robbins resident, said that incident has shaken the community.  

"We now need nothing more, nothing less than justice for Jemel," Brewton said.  

Follow USA TODAY national correspondent Aamer Madhani on Twitter: @AamerISmad 
 
 


 
His name was Jemel Roberson. 

He was a black man gunned down by a white Midlothian police officer Sunday morning in Robbins. Family, friends

and community members are calling for justice. 

Roberson’s death could become the Southland’s moment in the Black Lives Matter movement. 

Whether that happens depends in part on how authorities in the law enforcement, legal and judicial communities

handle the case. 

If justice is served, Roberson’s name may fade away. Those who knew him in Chicago and the south suburbs will

remember him. But there might no longer be reason for reporters to speak his name on television or for famous

people to mention him on social media. 

If, on the other hand, justice is not served, Roberson, of Chicago, could join a lexicon of names spoken in the fight

for justice: Trayvon Martin, Eric Garner, Tamir Rice, Philando Castile and Laquan McDonald, to name a few. 

Some of the names have become so well-known, they may become historical figures in our nation’s quest for racial

equality. Some of the places where they died could become landmarks associated with demonstrations calling for

fair and equal treatment of people of color. 

Could Midlothian become the next Ferguson, Mo.? Robbins, where Roberson was killed, is 91.4 percent black.

Neighboring Midlothian —where the white police officer who shot Roberson works —is 6.8 percent black, according

to Census data. 

Roberson was 26 years old. He was father to a 9-month-old boy named Tristan. He was a church-going guy who

played keyboards and drums in churches on Sundays, friends said. 

Roberson’s life was cut short Sunday in a parking lot outside Manny’s Blue Room Lounge in Robbins. In the days

since Roberson’s homicide, the case has received international media attention. 

“Jemel Roberson was a young father and a security guard who aspired to one day become a police officer,” U.S.

Sen. Cory Booker, D-N.J., Tweeted Tuesday night. “On Sunday, he was doing his job, subduing a shooter, when he

was killed by a police officer. Words can’t begin to describe my horror and outrage.” 

Witnesses described events to reporters. A fight broke out at the bar, they said. Roberson escorted a patron from

the premises. The man returned with a gun. Shots were fired. Bullets struck four people, who are expected to

MORE COVERAGE: Midlothian cop told Jemel Roberson to drop weapon before fatal Robbins shooting, state police

recover from their wounds. 

say. Lawyer claims probe rushed. » 

police, anyway » 

police departments responded. 

Protesters say security guard Jemel Roberson was proverbial 'good guy with a gun' —but was shot and killed by

Roberson subdued one of the men involved in the shooting. Officers from Robbins and the Cook County sheriff’s

Supporters described Roberson as a hero who prevented more serious casualties because of his actions during a

mass shooting. He was an armed security guard, a “good guy with a gun.” 

Then the Midlothian police officer arrived and shot Roberson. 

Illinois State Police are investigating the incident. In a statement issued late Tuesday, the agency said the

Midlothian officer “encountered a subject in plain black clothing with no markings readily identifying him as a

security guard, armed with a gun in the western parking lot. 

“According to witness statements, the Midlothian officer gave the armed subject multiple verbal commands to

drop the gun and get on the ground before ultimately discharging his weapon and striking the subject.” 

The official statement from state police seemed to contradict witness accounts that Roberson wore a hat that

identified him as a security guard. The choice of the word “ultimately” by authorities implies the officer was

deliberate and acted only after he considered other possible courses of action. 

For some, the circumstances of Roberson’s shooting are similar to the 2014 killing of McDonald, a 17-year-old who

was shot 16 times. In that case, several officers on the scene seemed to have the situation under control when a

cop showed up and indiscriminately shot McDonald. A jury convicted Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke of

Roberson’s friend Stringer Harris was among protesters who called for justice Tuesday afternoon outside the

“It takes time. It doesn’t happen overnight,” Harris said. “We won’t get justice tomorrow. We won’t get justice

second-degree murder. 

Midlothian Police Department. 

today. But we do want justice.” 

The Black Lives Matter movement began with a hashtag on social media following the acquittal of George

Zimmerman in the 2012 shooting death of Martin in Florida. In 2014, Michael Brown Jr. was shot and killed by a

police officer in Ferguson, Mo., which led to protests and civil unrest. 

Also in 2014, video captured Garner pleading, “I can’t breathe,” as he died when a New York City police officer put

him in a chokehold. Rice, a 12-year-old boy playing with a toy gun, was shot and killed by police in Cleveland. 

In 2015, Black Lives Matter protested the death of Freddie Gray in Baltimore, who died after sustaining injuries

while being transported in a police van. In 2016, Alton Sterling was shot dead by police in Baton Rouge, La., while

selling CDs outside a convenience store. Castile was shot dead by a police officer during a traffic stop in Falcon

Heights, Minn. Castile’s girlfriend live-streamed video of the aftermath. 

In the fall of 2016, some NFL players began kneeling during the national anthem as a way of protesting unjustified

killings of black civilians by white police officers. 

NBA player and Robbins native Dwyane Wade Tweeted about Roberson on Tuesday. 

“Speechless! Even after hearing he was one of ‘the good guys’ he’s still shot like his life doesn’t matter! A man that

was doing his job to protect the lives of others . . . I grew up streets away from Manny’s Blue Room in Robbins this

hurts my heart,” Wade wrote. 

If considered in isolation, each incident might be forgotten as time passes and anger fades. When considered

collectively, however, each additional incident sustains the Black Lives Matter movement. Why, in America, does it

seem that black people are more likely to be shot dead by white police officers without justification? 

“We want to have a national conversation about police crimes,” protest organizer Eric Russell said Tuesday outside

the Midlothian police station. 

Midlothian Police Chief Daniel Delaney posted a message on the department’s Facebook page Tuesday that

seemed to express an unusual level of sensitivity about the incident. 

“What we have learned is Jemel Roberson was a brave man who was doing his best to end an active shooter

situation at Manny’s Blue Room,” Delaney wrote. “The Midlothian Police Department is completely saddened by

this tragic incident and we give our heartfelt condolences to Jemel, his family and his friends. There are no words

that can be expressed as to the sorrow his family is dealing with.” 

Community members want accountability. People want reforms in how police are trained to respond in situations.

One life lost because of mistakes or unjust practices is too many. 

tslowik@tribpub.com 

Twitter @TedSlowik1 

Credit: Ted Slowik 

 
 


 
Jan. 08--The Illinois State Police are arguing that they should not have to identify the Midlothian police officer who

fatally shot security guard Jemel Roberson outside a Robbins bar last November, according to court filings. 

The state police, whose Public Integrity Task Force is investigating the shooting, say any decision on releasing the

officer's identity should be made by Midlothian, which has argued against identifying him. The state police also is

seeking to withhold video and witness statements from the Nov. 11 incident until its investigation concludes. It

wants a six-month extension. 

An attorney for the ISP made the request Friday in a motion asking the court to extend its deadline for responding

to a subpoena filed by an attorney for Roberson's estate. 

The subpoena, filed Nov. 16 by Gregory Kulis, had sought the release of records related to the shooting, including

the identity of the Midlothian police officer who shot Roberson. 

The state police's request for an extension comes on the heels of two previous extensions the agency requested

Neither the ISP attorney who requested the extension nor Kulis immediately responded to requests for comment

and was granted. 

Monday. 

The basis for the latest extension request, ISP argues, is law enforcement investigative privilege. 

MORE COVERAGE: Cop in fatal shooting of security guard in 'very real fear for his life,' Midlothian says » 

At funeral for slain security guard Jemel Roberson, his mom says 'justice will be served, but in God's time' » 

"The purpose of the law enforcement investigative privilege and reason for asserting it here is to ensure that the

ongoing criminal investigations" -- ISP is investigating Roberson's shooting and the Cook County sheriff's office is

investigating the multiple shootings inside Manny's Blue Room Lounge in Robbins that preceded it -- "are thorough,

complete, and accurate so that the truth is ascertained," the motion states. 

State police argued that any decision to release the officer's identity, which has been kept under wraps for nearly

two months since the shooting, should be left up to Midlothian. 

"Given the possibility of threats to the Officer, (Midlothian) is in the best position to determine whether those

threats justify withholding Office (sic) John Doe's identity," the motion states. 

The village, in previously denying a reporter's Freedom of Information Act request for the officer's personnel file,

said the officer had been the target of epithets and death threats, and had a "very real fear for his life if he is

identified at this time." 

investigation. 

of the shooting. 

The officer, who is white, has been with the department for nearly four years and was a team leader on the regional

SWAT team, the village has said. He is on paid administrative leave pending the conclusion of the state police

Roberson, who was black, had been working security inside Manny's Blue Room the night before and early morning

According to witness accounts, he sprang into action after a fight broke out between two groups of men and shots

were fired. 

said. 

Amid the chaos, Roberson, 26, of Chicago, managed to apprehend one of the bar shooting suspects, and was

holding the man at gunpoint on the ground in Manny's parking lot when a police officer shot him dead, witnesses

Witnesses said the officer fired on Roberson, who was wearing garb clearly marked with the word "Security,"

without giving him an adequate opportunity to respond to his verbal commands. 

The incident sparked protests and calls for justice by activists, who demanded the officer's immediate termination

and arrest for murder. 

as a Security Guard." 

Two days after the shooting, Illinois State Police released a statement contradicting previously published witness

accounts and said its preliminary investigation had found the officer gave "multiple verbal commands" to

Roberson to drop his gun and get on the ground before shooting him. 

The ISP statement also said Roberson was wearing "plain black clothing with no markings readily identifying him

Kulis, the attorney for Roberson's estate, said ISP's release of its preliminary findings -- which were attributed to

"witness statements" -- just 2 1/2 days after the incident, was unprecedented. 

He filed a subpoena seeking the witness statements and evidence police had used to make their preliminary

findings, arguing that because the agency had issued a press statement citing the findings, he was entitled to see

the evidence supporting them. 

U.S. District Judge Joan Lefkow denied his motion requesting the release of the officer's name on Nov. 20, and

granted state police an extension until Dec. 18 to respond to his subpoena for other investigative documents. 

On Dec. 18, state police requested an additional extension until Jan. 4, which was granted Jan. 2. 

The ISP's Jan. 4 motion to stay Kulis' subpoena argues that disclosing the information he requested would

discourage other witnesses from coming forward, especially since the suspects in the initial bar shooting -- which

sheriff's police are investigating -- have not yet been arrested. 

State police claim that releasing witness information would hinder both investigations by putting witnesses' and

victims' lives in danger and potentially affecting subsequent witness testimony. 

"The (Public Integrity Task Force) is tasked with conducting a thorough investigation to ascertain the truth and

provide a complete report to the State's Attorney so it can conduct any criminal proceedings," the ISP motion

states. "If the PITF is to accomplish this, then it requires some time to investigate without outside influences,

including those of civil litigants. Otherwise, these outside interferences undermine the integrity of the

investigation, place innocent citizens' lives at risk, and jeopardize potential criminal defendants' right to a fair trial." 

Kulis responded Monday to the state police's motion by filing his own motion requesting sanctions against the

agency for its failure to comply with deadlines agreed to and set by the court. 

"The Illinois State Police should be found in Contempt of Court for failure to meet its Court promises and comply

with the Court Order," he wrote in his motion, which also requests $3,127.50 in attorney's fees and that the court

deny the ISP's motion to stay his subpoena. 

CREDIT: By Zak Koeske 
 
 


 
An attorney for security guard Jemel Roberson’s partner said he learned the identity of the police officer who shot

and killed the nightclub security guard—and he will release the name if authorities do not, USA Today reported

Friday. Civil-rights attorney Lee Merritt, who represents the mother of Roberson’s nine-month-old son, claimed he

independently learned the name of the officer who killed Roberson outside an Illinois bar over the weekend and will

release it to the public by Monday if the authorities haven’t by then. The lawyer also reportedly accused Illinois

State Police and Midlothian Police Department of withholding the officer’s name from the public so that the cop

Company / organization:

Name: USA Today; NAICS: 511110; Name: State Police-Illinois; NAICS: 922120

has a chance to “hide evidence.” 
 
 


 
About two dozen demonstrators marched a few blocks down Pulaski Road in Midlothian to the village’s police

station Friday to protest the Nov. 11 shooting of Jemel Roberson by a police officer. 

“We came out on Black Friday to call for an economic boycott of Midlothian,” Eric Russell, activist and co-organizer

of the rally, said. 

Roberson, 26, was working as security guard at Manny’s Blue Room in Robbins and was attempting to apprehend

a gunman when Midlothian police arrived on the scene and shot him, police said. 

State police have stated that Roberson wasn’t wearing anything to identify him as a security guard, but several

witnesses say that “security” was written on his shirt. 

Activist Matt Harrington said Friday that protestors want the police officer, whose name has not been released, to

be fired and charged and for the mayor and police chief of Midlothian to step down for allegedly trying to cover-up

the incident. 

Shouting chants, such as “Justice for Jemel” and “No justice, no peace, no racist Midlothian police,” protestors

also prayed for justice while placing their hands on the Midlothian Village Hall building. 

Midlothian police stopped traffic temporarily on Pulaski Road to allow the protestors to cross the street and had

monitored them in front of the village hall. 

Along with activist Tio Hardiman, who also attended Friday’s rally, Harrington and Russell helped organize a Black

Friday protest along Michigan Avenue in Chicago three years ago to protest the killing of Laquan McDonald. 

Although not as large as that demonstration, Russell said they were trying to bring attention to the fact that many

Robbins residents shop in Midlothian and a boycott is needed to motivate officials to act. 

The marchers were joined by Roberson’s girlfriend and mother of their 9-month-old child. 

Harrington said other demonstrations are being planned for some time after Roberson’s funeral on Saturday. 

Frank Vaisvilas is a freelance reporter for the Southtown Star. 

Credit: Frank Vaisvilas 
 
 


 
Dec. 01-- 

activists were denied access. 

officers name. 

Protestors said this has to stop. 

look for justice for Jemel Roberson. 
 
 


 
Family of slain security guard Jemel Roberson said during his funeral service Saturday they are “hurting to the

core” and promised that “we will see justice is served.” 

Mourners who gathered at House of Hope Worship Center on Chicago’s South Side nearly two weeks following the

26-year-old’s shooting death heard how Roberson was a “talented young man” who played music at several area

churches. 

Roberson’s mother, Beatrice Roberson, said her son “died doing what he loved,” and that the loss “hurts like crazy.” 

“He was a good person, he had a good heart,” she said. 

Roberson, of Chicago, had been working security at Manny’s Blue Room in Robbins in the early morning hours of

Nov. 11 when a fight broke out between two groups of men and shots were fired. 

Police from multiple local departments responded to the shooting, including a white officer from neighboring

Midlothian, who shot Roberson, who was black, as he held one of the suspected bar shooters at gunpoint. 

According to a preliminary Illinois State Police investigation into the shooting that cited “witness statements,” the

officer gave “multiple verbal commands” to Roberson to drop his gun and get on the ground before shooting him.

The preliminary report also said Roberson was wearing “plain black clothing with no markings readily identifying

him as a Security Guard.” 

Witnesses, however, have contradicted that account, saying that the officer opened fire on Roberson before giving

him an adequate opportunity to respond to his verbal commands. They also reported that Roberson was wearing

clothing clearly marked with the word “Security.” 

Family members have said that Roberson had aspirations of becoming a police officer. 

Roberson’s aunt, Louise Roberson, said a “racist white” police officer took her nephew’s life, and that “justice will

“The fight has just begun,” she told several hundred mourners. 

“He was a people person,” Roberson’s sister, Learahteen Bridges, said. “He loved everybody.” 

Bridges said the shooting was unjustified, and that Roberson’s family is angry but “not hating.” 

“We’re hurting to the core,” she said. “We will see justice is served.” 

Roberson’s mother said she didn’t like the job her son had working as a security guard, but said he loved to help

be done.” 

people. 

As far as the unnamed officer who fatally shot her son, Beatrice Robeson said “I don’t hate him, I pray for him.” 

The officer is on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the state police investigation. 

Acknowledging the anger that the circumstances surrounding her son’s death has caused, she told those in the

church that “if you want to honor my son’s life, you show love.” 

“Justice will be served, but in God’s time,” she said. 

A federal judge has denied a request by the family to identify the Midlothian officer involved in the shooting, and an

attorney for Roberson’s family has issued a subpoena to the state police requesting that by Friday they turn over

all preliminary reports regarding the department’s findings about the shooting. That includes all police reports,

witness statements and other investigative documents pertaining to the shooting, the name of the Midlothian

officer who shot Roberson and any footage from the incident. 

Cook County Sheriff’s Police are also seeking the public’s help in identifying possible witnesses to the shooting,

which took place in the parking lot of Manny’s. 

critical of the police response. 

The Rev. Michael Reynolds, pastor of new Life Celebration Church of God, which Beatrice Robeson attends, was

He said Jemel Roberson “believed in being a good guy” and was “wearing one of the good guy hats,” referring to a

cap he was allegedly wearing at the time identifying him as “Security.” Reynolds said that Roberson’s life was

The pastor said that security work was in Roberson and that he was a hero for subduing one of the suspected bar

Reynolds said Roberson would have followed a command from the police to drop his own gun, and would not

“snuffed out by the so-called good guys.” 

shooters. 

“oppose or rebel” against “the people he admired.” 

mnolan@southtownstar.com 

Twitter @mnolan_j 

MORE COVERAGE 

Security professionals say police shooting of guard Jemel Roberson an anomaly in a dangerous job » 

What's known — and not known — about the police shooting of security guard Jemel Roberson » 

'He's securing the gates of heaven now': Friends, family remember Jemel Roberson, security guard fatally shot by

cop » 

mnolan@southtownstar.com 

Twitter @mnolan_j 

Credit: Mike Nolan 
 
 


 
A group of about 50 pastors, activists, church musicians and security guards from across the Chicago area

gathered outside the Midlothian Police Department Friday morning to demand justice for a security guard killed by

police while attempting to subdue a shooting suspect. 

“The whole world is watching,” said the Rev. Marshall Hatch, of the Leaders Network. “This will not be something

that will be swept under the rug.” 

The speakers called for an independent investigation into the officer-involved shooting of Jemel Roberson, 26, of

Chicago, and demanded that the unnamed white Midlothian officer who shot him be fired and charged criminally. 

State Sen. Emil Jones III did not attend the news conference, but also released a statement Friday calling for the

immediate dismissal of the officer. 

online fundraiser to support Roberson’s family. 

Meanwhile, entertainment website TMZ reported that Chicago entertainer Kanye West donated $150,000 to an

Roberson had been working security inside Manny’s Blue Room in Robbins Saturday night and into Sunday

morning when a fight broke out between two groups of men and shots were fired. 

Amid the chaotic scene, he managed to apprehend one of the bar shooting suspects, and was holding the man at

gunpoint on the ground in Manny’s parking lot when a Midlothian police officer shot him dead, witnesses said. 

According to a preliminary Illinois State Police investigation into the shooting that cited “witness statements,” the

officer gave “multiple verbal commands” to Roberson to drop his gun and get on the ground before shooting him. 

The preliminary report also said Roberson was wearing “plain black clothing with no markings readily identifying

him as a Security Guard.” 

Witnesses, however, have contradicted that account, saying that the officer opened fire on Roberson before giving

him an adequate opportunity to respond to his verbal commands. They also reported that Roberson was wearing

The Rev. Michael Pfleger, pastor of St. Sabina Catholic Church, said Friday that the officer who shot Roberson

“That’s what it was,” he said. “It was not blue on blue crime. It was blue on black crime. It was not an accidental

garb clearly marked with the word “Security.” 

should be fired and charged with murder. 

shooting.” 

Pfleger said that if Roberson had been white, he does not believe he would have been shot. 

“He would have been questioned, he would have been asked, he would have told Jemel to raise his hands,” Pfleger

said. “Jemel Roberson is dead for no other reason than doing his job, protecting people. Let’s not ignore the

elephant in the room. The problem with Jemel is, he was black.” 

The Rev. Walter Turner, of New Spiritual Light Missionary Baptist Church, said it appeared the Illinois State Police

was “trying to muddy up” Roberson’s character and that it was necessary for another government body to conduct

the investigation into his shooting. He mentioned the attorney general’s office and the state’s attorney’s office as

preferable options to the state police. 

Turner also called for the immediate release of Roberson’s autopsy report. 

“The autopsy report will show us just what he was wearing. The report will show us how many times was he shot.

The report will show us where he was shot,” he said. “We’re also calling for the state’s attorney Madam Kim Foxx to

make sure that we get the proper just due for this man’s life and for his family so that they can grieve properly and

can bring unfortunate closure to a life that has been taken away.” 

Jones, the Democratic state senator from Chicago, released the following on his call for the officer’s immediate

firing: 

“Police are shooting people of color far too often. It’s time to be more aggressive in our response to these

incidents. …Regardless of the findings of the investigation, this officer has already shown he lacks the basic

professional judgment to wear the badge and serve our communities in a law enforcement capacity. 

“As we learn more about the case, I will continue to do all I can to ensure that justice prevails.” 

The Midlothian officer who shot Roberson was placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the ISP

investigation into the incident. Police Chief Daniel Delaney said the officer, a member of the patrol division, had

been with the department for nearly four years and was a team leader on the regional SWAT team. 

“The Midlothian Police Department is completely saddened by this tragic incident and we give our heartfelt

condolences to Jemel, his mother, his entire family and his friends,” the chief said in a statement released earlier

this week. “There are no words that can be expressed as to the sorrow his family is dealing with. We view this as

the equivalent of a “blue on blue,” friendly fire incident.” 

Lee Merritt, an attorney retained by the mother of Roberson’s infant son, said he saw many parallels between this

case and another high-profile police shooting of a black man he’s working on in Texas. 

“When I started working the Botham case, I said, all right, this is rock bottom for policing. Someone is sitting at

home in their apartment, minding their own business. It can’t get worse than that,” he said, referring to a

September incident in which 26-year-old Botham Jean was shot and killed in his own apartment by an off-duty

Dallas police officer who said she’d mistaken Jean’s apartment for her own and thought he was an intruder. 

“It just did (get worse),” Merritt said of the Roberson shooting. “They killed a hero, a national hero who’s actually

out there saving lives, and it has blown me away, honestly. I didn’t think it was possible to get worse than Botham

Jean and this case just did.” 

Merritt said he’s conducting his own investigation of Roberson’s shooting in parallel with the state police’s

investigation and plans to eventually turn over the evidence he collects to the state’s attorney. 

Credit: Zak Koeske 
 
 


 
A U.S. District judge denied a motion Tuesday requesting the release of the name of the Midlothian officer who

fatally shot security guard Jemel Roberson. 

Gregory Kulis, an attorney for Roberson’s family, filed the motion Friday, arguing that because the Illinois State

Police, which is investigating the shooting, had issued a press statement with preliminary information about its

investigation just two days after the shooting, it had waived its investigatory privilege and should disclose the

officer’s name and the names of witnesses the agency interviewed. 

He simultaneously issued a subpoena to the state police requesting that by Nov. 30 they turn over all preliminary

reports regarding the department’s findings about the shooting; all police reports, witness statements and other

investigative documents pertaining to the shooting; the name of the Midlothian officer who shot Roberson; and

any footage from the incident. 

to know who this officer is.” 

“The public should have the right to know who this officer is,” Kulis said in court Tuesday. “I should have the right

Michael Stephenson, an attorney for the state police, responded to Kulis’ motion by calling it “an attempt to side-

step the basic rules of motion practice,” and asked the judge to deny the motion and give state police until Dec. 17

to respond to the subpoena —approximately 30 days from the time it was issued. 

“This Motion is in complete disregard of (subpoena rules),” Stephenson argued in his response. “This is not enough

time for the State Police to review the subpoena and respond as appropriate.” 

Judge Joan Lefkow sided with the state police, saying, “Let’s just follow the rules here.” 

Lefkow said she didn’t view the Nov. 13 news release that state police issued on Roberson’s shooting to constitute

“preliminary findings,” as Kulis said news media had characterized it. 

“They don’t control how the media spin it,” Lefkow said of the state police, whose statement on the shooting said

their “preliminary investigation” found that Roberson was wearing plain black clothing with “no markings readily

identifying him as a Security Guard” and that the Midlothian officer had given him “multiple verbal commands” to

drop his gun and get on ground before shooting him. 

Multiple witnesses have contradicted the state police account, saying the officer started firing at Roberson before

giving him an adequate chance to respond to his verbal commands. Witnesses also said Roberson was wearing

clothing clearly emblazoned with the word “Security.” 

MORE COVERAGE: 'He's securing the gates of heaven now': Friends, family remember Jemel Roberson, security

guard fatally shot by cop » 

He had been working security inside Manny’s Blue Room in Robbins in the early morning hours of Nov. 11 when a

fight broke out between two groups of men and shots were fired. 

Police from multiple jurisdictions responded to the shooting, including a white officer from neighboring Midlothian,

who shot Roberson in the parking lot as he held one of the suspected bar shooters on the ground at gunpoint,

witnesses said. 

After learning that its officer had shot a security guard, the Midlothian Police Department issued a statement

offering condolences to Roberson’s family and calling the shooting “the equivalent of a ‘blue on blue,’ friendly fire

incident.” 

The department has not responded to questions about the officer’s identity or his actions, but has said he was

placed on paid administrative leave pending the outcome of the state police investigation into the incident. 

Kulis told the judge Tuesday that he thinks he knows the officer’s name, but is hesitant to release it publicly

without confirmation from the department or state police. 

“Why can’t they just give me the name of the individual?” he said. 

zkoeske@tribpub.com 

Twitter @ZakKoeske 

Credit: Zak Koeske 
 
 


 
The American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois issued the following statement by Karen Sheley, director of Police

Practices Project: 

* * * 

scene. 

On early Sunday morning, Jemel Roberson was working as a security guard in a nightclub in Robbins, a Chicago

suburb. As he tried to detain a man apparently involved in a shooting, he was shot by police officers arriving at the

"Jemel Roberson should be alive today. Working as a security guard while Black should not be a death sentence. 

"In this case, police were more dangerous to him than an active shooter who he apparently subdued. 

The police killing of Mr. Roberson was avoidable. Here, a police officer's assumptions about Mr. Roberson,

apparently impacted by bias, rather than a clear-headed assessment of the situation, resulted in a tragedy." 

Company / organization:

Name: American Civil Liberties Union--ACLU; NAICS: 541110, 813311

Publication title:

Targeted News Service; Washington, D.C.

MSTRUCK-6517136 MSTRUCK 
 
 


 
The Illinois State Police took steps on Tuesday to defend the actions of a suburban Chicago police officer who

killed an armed security guard on Sunday, claiming that the guard was not wearing a uniform and ignored verbal

commands to drop his weapon. But witnesses have contradicted that account, and it was not clear how the State

Police reached its conclusions. 

The findings by the state’s Public Integrity Task Force, the lead agency in the case, were based on a preliminary

investigation into the killing of the guard, Jemel Roberson, 26, who was responding to a shooting at a bar. But a

lawyer for his family disputed the state’s account and criticized the agency for rushing to judgment just days after

the deadly encounter. 

“We are three days into this and they are saying preliminarily that it was a good shoot?” the lawyer, Greg Kulis, said

in an interview on Wednesday. “They traditionally take nine months or longer.” 

The killing of Mr. Roberson has ignited protests and demands for justice, just a month after a Chicago police

officer was found guilty of second-degree murder in the high-profile killing of Laquan McDonald, a black teenager

who was shot 16 times by an officer in 2014. Protesters have pointed out that Mr. Roberson, who was black, was

killed even though he was a “good guy with a gun,” the type of person put forth by the National Rifle Association

and President Trump as a solution to mass shootings. 

The shooting on Sunday morning occurred while Mr. Roberson was chasing after a gunman who had opened fire

inside the bar, Manny’s Luxury Lounge in Robbins, Ill. The man had struck four people inside, and Mr. Roberson

was trying to detain him when the police arrived. 

A white officer with the Midlothian Police Department encountered Mr. Roberson in a parking lot outside the bar,

and according to the State Police, gave “multiple verbal commands” for Mr. Roberson to drop his weapon. The

officer then opened fire on Mr. Roberson, the State Police said. 

On Tuesday, Chief Daniel Delaney of the Midlothian Police Department said he was “completely saddened by this

tragic incident.” 

family is dealing with.” 

“What we have learned is Jemel Roberson was a brave man who was doing his best to end an active shooter

situation,” Chief Delaney wrote on Facebook . “There are no words that can be expressed as to the sorrow his

The man suspected of opening fire inside the bar was being treated on Wednesday in a hospital, the Cook County

Sheriff’s Office said. He has not yet been charged. 

Mr. Roberson, who lived in Chicago, had hoped to become a police officer, Mr. Kulis said. Other security guards at

the bar encouraged him to stay home on Saturday night because he had an early engagement the next morning,

playing the organ at his church. But Mr. Roberson kept his promise and showed up at work. 

His mother, Beatrice Roberson, has declined all news media requests for interviews, Mr. Kulis said. 

In the days after the shooting, Mr. Kulis filed a federal lawsuit against the Midlothian officer, whose name has not

been made public, on Ms. Roberson’s behalf. He also filed a request in court for the Midlothian Police Department,

along with the other agencies that responded to the scene, to preserve all evidence in the case. And on

Wednesday, Mr. Kulis said he planned to subpoena the State Police for the information it used to reach its

preliminary conclusions. 

“It’s really bizarre that their preliminary statement is that arguably the shooting was justified,” Mr. Kulis said. 

Mr. Kulis said he located several witnesses whose accounts contradicted the State Police’s findings. They told him

that Mr. Roberson was wearing a black ski cap with the word “Security” across the front, Mr. Kulis said. 

One witness also said that he screamed at the officer not to shoot Mr. Roberson. “He was yelling, ‘He’s security,

he’s security, he’s security,’” Mr. Kulis said. 

None of those witnesses have been interviewed by the State Police, Mr. Kulis said. 

“I don’t know what they are relying on,” Mr. Kulis said. 

Credit: Matthew Haag 
 
 


 
MIDLOTHIAN, Ill. –An attorney for the partner of the black security guard who was shot to death by a suburban

Chicago police officer this week called on investigators Friday to release the officer’s name –or he'll do it himself.  

Jemel Roberson, 26, was working security at a bar in Robbins, Illinois, early Sunday when a gunman opened fire

inside the bar.  

Roberson was armed and licensed to carry a gun. He apprehended the gunman outside the bar, pinned him down

and was waiting for police help when a responding officer from the neighboring town of Midlothian arrived.  

Police say the officer ordered Roberson to drop his gun. Witnesses say they shouted that Roberson was a security

guard. The officer shot and killed Roberson.  

Civil rights attorney Lee Merritt, who is representing the mother of Roberson’s 9-month-old son, accused Illinois

State Police and the Midlothian Police Department of withholding the name of the officer to give him time to clean

up his internet footprint and “hide evidence. ” 

September by an off-duty police officer.  

Merritt also represents the family of Botham Jean, the Dallas man who was shot to death in his home in

Dallas Police Officer Amber Guyger has said she mistakenly entered the man’s apartment in the same complex

where she lived. She has said she thought she was in her apartment, and Jean was an intruder.  

Dallas Police kept Guyger's name out of the public until she was arrested and charged with manslaughter, about

48 hours after the incident.  

“They refused to release Amber Guyger’s name, which gave her a chance to scrub the internet and hide evidence,”

Merritt told USA TODAY on Friday. “It’s exactly what’s going on here. ” 

Merritt said he’s learned the name of the Midlothian officer independently and plans to release it to the media on

Monday if authorities haven't by then.  

Illinois State Police, which is investigating the shooting, referred questions on the officer's identity to Midlothian

Police. Officials in Midlothian did not respond to requests for comment.  

Midlothian Police have confirmed that the officer is white, has been a police officer for about seven years,

including four years with Midlothian, and is a team leader on a SWAT task force that includes officers from south

suburban Chicago law enforcement agencies.  

More: Police: Cop who shot security guard Jemel Roberson gave 'multiple' commands to drop weapon before firing 

More: Police officer near Chicago fatally shot security guard who was detaining a suspect 

The shooting outside Manny's Blue Room Lounge in Robbins has drawn national headlines, outrage and questions

about whether race factored into the officer’s decision to open fire. Roberson was black. The officer is white.  

The person Roberson apprehended had allegedly fired a weapon inside the bar moments earlier, wounding multiple

people and drawing police from surrounding jurisdictions to rush to the establishment.  

The Cook County Sheriff’s Office is investigating the shooting inside the bar. The state police Public Integrity Task

Force is investigating the shooting outside the bar. No charges have been filed in either incident.  

The task force has said the Midlothian officer was responding to reports of a shooting when he saw a man decked

out in “plain black clothing with no markings readily identifying him as a security guard, armed with a gun. " 

“According to witness statements, the Midlothian Officer gave the armed subject multiple verbal commands to

drop the gun and get on the ground before ultimately discharging his weapon and striking the subject,” state police

said.  

Midlothian’s Police chief has praised Roberson as a brave man who was doing his job. He said he saw the incident

ultimately as a "blue on blue," friendly fire shooting.  

Merritt accused Illinois State Police and Midlothian Police of releasing a slow drip of information “designed to

exonerate this officer …and throw water on the community unrest. ” 

Merritt said witnesses have told him that Roberson was wearing a beanie-styled hat emblazoned with the word

“SECURITY,” and a shirt and vest with similar markings.  

The attorney said witnesses –some of whom he said were not interviewed by police –told him the officer did not

give Roberson an opportunity to comply with his order to drop the gun.  

“They’re (police) saying 'We told him drop the gun and he didn’t, that there was time to reflect,' ”Merritt said. “The

people we’ve interviewed are saying ‘It was drop the gun –Pop! Pop! Pop!” 

Roberson suffered multiple gunshot wounds, according to the Cook County Medical Examiner’s Officer.  

Roberson's mother, Beatrice Roberson, has filed a federal civil lawsuit against Midlothian and the officer. Her

attorney, Gregory Kulis, issued a subpoena Friday calling on Illinois State Police to release the name of the officer,

according to a court filing.  

Several Chicago area pastors and civil rights activist joined Merritt’s call to release the officer’s name. The Rev.

Michael Pfleger, a prominent Catholic pastor and civil rights activist, said Midlothian should immediately fire the

officer and the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office should file murder charges.  

Authorities say that officers from several jurisdictions were at the scene. The Midlothian officer is the only one

who discharged his weapon.  

racial profiling. ” 

“It was not a blue on blue,” Pfleger said. “It was blue-on-black crime. This was no accidental murder. This was

LeAundre Hill, pastor at Chicago’s Purposed Church, said Roberson worked as an organist and musician at several

Chicago-area churches and recently helped with the music at the funeral service for one of Hill’s relatives.  

Roberson had a 9-month-old son with Avontae Boose. She is pregnant with their second child.  

He planned to apply to become a police officer in the Chicago area.  

Roberson had been hustling to pick up work wherever he could find it, Merritt said, so he’d have money to buy

plenty of gifts for his son’s first Christmas. He had a paid gig to play organ at a Chicago church on the morning he

Boose had been nervous about being pregnant again, Merritt said, but Roberson had assured her they’d be fine.  

“The idea to being pregnant again that soon after having her first child was kind of kind of scary,” Merritt said. “He

was able to calm her down. He said, 'I'm going to become a police officer. I am going to be able to provide for you

was killed.  

and this family. ’” 
 
 


 
Dec. 24-- 

Sunday in Englewood. 

CHICAGO Santa made a surprise visit to the home of the pregnant girlfriend and infant son of Jemel Roberson

Its been a long six weeks for Avontea Boose since a Midlothian police officer shot and killed 26-year-old Jemel

Roberson at Mannys Blue Room Bar in Robbins, IL November 11. 

"Im shocked, surprised and thankful," Avontea Boose said. 

Roberson worked security at the bar, and was subduing a gunman in the parking lot when a Midlothian officer

arriving on the scene shot and killed him. The officer remains on paid administrative leave while Illinois State

Police continue their investigation. Federal civil lawsuits are now filed against Midlothain on behalf of Robersons

That includes young Tristian and his unborn sibling, who is due in June. 

"The first Christmas without Jemel, its just crazy," Boose said. "Its sad because Tristan wont see his dad for his

A local towing company provided a ride for Santa, and pitched in to buy gifts for the family. 

"For these kids to lose their father because of a senseless tragedy, it saddened my heart," said Early Walker, W&W

Towing. "It was just a blessing to be in position to come out here, and you know, just give from the bottom of my

children. 

first Christmas." 

heart." 

While their hearts are heavy, they're buoyed up in part by the generosity of the community. 

"This is amazing, I appreciate it," Boose said. 
 
 


 
The death of security guard Jemel Roberson is yet another in a long string of fatal police shootings of young black

men. Why did the officer see Roberson as a threat even though he was trying to help the police? The officer saw a

young black man with a gun and assumed Roberson was a dangerous criminal. Decades of social science

research indicate that most people associate blacks with danger, criminality and violence.  

What happened? On Nov. 11, 2018, a little after 4 a. m. , a police officer responding to a report of gunfire at a

suburban bar shot and killed 26-year-old Jemel Roberson, a security guard at that bar. Roberson had just captured

a man with a gun following a shooting at the bar, which is why police were called.  

When police arrived on the scene, Roberson was outside the bar, holding one of the suspects in the shooting on

the ground with his knee in the man’s back and his gun pointed at the man’s back. According to a spokesperson

for the Cook County Sheriff’s Office, Roberson was licensed to carry a firearm. He was in uniform and was wearing

a hat with the word “Security” on the front. The officer shot Roberson even though many people around were

screaming at him that Roberson was a security guard.  

De-escalation could have saved Roberson's life 

Roberson’s death could have been avoided had the officer engaged in de-escalation measures, such as taking

cover, waiting for backup, and trying to talk with Roberson before deciding to shoot. If a law had been in place

requiring de-escalation, this officer might not have been so quick to pull the trigger.  

Avoiding fatal police shootings of individuals who are not actually dangerous criminals posing an imminent threat

of death or serious bodily injury is the reason legislatures need to reform state laws on police use of deadly force.

Most statutes currently in place focus solely on whether the officer believed deadly force was necessary to

effectuate an arrest or prevent the escape of a felon or to protect against a threat to officer or public safety.  

More: Chicago's policing problem is systemic. Truth and reconciliation are needed.  

More: When videotaping cops isn't enough, what's next? 

POLICING THE USA: A look at race, justice, media 

When an officer claims justifiable use of deadly force, his or her use of force should be evaluated on two levels.

First, was the officer’s belief in the need to use deadly force to protect against a threat of death or serious bodily

injury honest and reasonable? And second, were the officer’s actions reasonable? 

Focusing on actions as well as beliefs is very important for several reasons. If the focus is solely on the officer’s

beliefs, the question becomes simply whether the officer’s fear was reasonable. Given the difficult job police

officers do, it is too easy to conclude that an officer’s fear was reasonable.  

Actions mean more than beliefs and fears 

If the focus is on actions as well as beliefs, however, the fact finder can get beyond an assessment of the officer’s

fear. In assessing the reasonableness of the officer’s actions, the fact finder should consider whether the officer

engaged in de-escalation measures and whether the conduct of the officer prior to the use of deadly force

increased the risk of a deadly confrontation.  

Given the absence of legislation requiring de-escalation measures, fatal police shootings of civilians trying to help

police are likely to occur with more frequency in the future —especially if there is follow through on President

Donald Trump's call for teachers and other civilians to carry firearms. Roberson's death is a warning we should not

Cynthia Lee, a professor of criminal law at The George Washington University, is the author of "Reforming the Law

on Police Use of Deadly Force: De-escalation, Preseizure Conduct, and Imperfect Self-Defense. " 
 
 


 
Huddled in the parking lot of Manny’s Blue Room Lounge in Robbins, where moments earlier a white Midlothian

police officer opened fire on a black security guard who had subdued a shooting suspect at gunpoint, several

onlookers shouted angrily at a wall of police officers who stood between them and the security guard’s lifeless

body that lay uncovered on the cold pavement. 

“Your man shot my man. The police shot security. That’s what happened,” a distraught Manny’s security guard told

an officer in an exchange captured by police body camera and obtained by the Daily Southtown. “We have a …vest

on and we getting shot. It’s …stupid.” 

A series of 15 dashboard camera, body camera and recovered cellphone videos that depict the torrent of raw

emotions that deluged witnesses of the Jemel Roberson shooting were released by the Cook County sheriff’s

office in response to a Freedom of Information Act request. 

The videos, which are the first images from the Nov. 11 incident to be released publicly, do not contain footage of

Midlothian police Officer Ian Covey shooting Roberson or the events that immediately preceded it because the

sheriff’s office does not possess such footage, chief policy officer Cara Smith said. 

The video release does, however, include two brief cell phone clips filmed inside the bar shortly before the interior

shooting that prompted a large police response, as well as longer videos taken in the parking lot after Roberson

was shot, primarily from the vantage of sheriff’s police. 

Smith said the agency released the videos now, more than two months after the shooting, because it had

determined that “under state law, and in the interests of transparency,” the videos could now be released to the

public. 

yield any arrests. 

The sheriff’s office, which is investigating the bar shooting that brought police officers from multiple departments

rushing to the scene that night, said it had no comment on its ongoing criminal investigation, which has yet to

The Illinois State Police, whose Public Integrity Task Force is investigating Roberson’s shooting, did not

immediately provide comment on the sheriff’s release of the videos. 

State police have thus far refused to release any videos of the incident in their possession or any other evidence

collected from the scene, arguing in court that law enforcement investigative privilege entitled them to withhold

the information until the conclusion of their investigation. 

The video clips provided by the sheriff’s office portray a frenzied and disordered scene where witnesses, infuriated

by what they had seen, lash out at police as officers, many of whom arrived after Roberson was shot, attempt to

preserve the crime scene and assuage distressed witnesses with varying degrees of tact. 

In some frames, officers are seen performing chest compressions on Roberson, while other clips show the security

guard’s lifeless body lying uncovered on the ground with no one appearing to tend to him. 

Some bystanders sobbed. Others called Covey “racist.” Still others begged for answers. 

“Somebody gotta make sense of this for me, bro,” one man pleaded. “Somebody gotta make sense of this.” 

One security guard who was working alongside Roberson told police that a man entered the bar’s side door and

fired about five shots. He said security went outside and returned fire, striking the gunman. 

“Everything was clear. Everything was down,” the guard told police in one clip, explaining that Roberson had

subdued the bar shooter and was getting things under control before police shot him. 

The security guard said Covey came out the bar’s side entrance and was pointing his assault rifle wildly when he

spotted Roberson holding the offender on the ground at gunpoint and told him to drop his gun. 

“I’m telling (Covey), he workin’ with us, cool out. He’s working with us,” the security guard said. “(Covey) shot him.

Four or five times. After we told him he’s with us. 

“Did he not see us with vests on, bro?” the guard continued, raising his voice. “Why would I have a vest on, bro?

This . . . ain’t for fun.” 

A few minutes later, as the standoff between police and anguished witnesses continued to intensify, one of the

officers pulled the same security guard aside in an effort to calm him down. 

“I don’t need nobody else getting hurt, man,” the officer said to him. “We just need to get the truth outta this… 

“If this was bogus, we want the (officer) to be held accountable…You gotta make yourself a credible witness, not a

hostile witness. You get what I’m saying? I need you to calm down.” 

The officer then explained that he and his colleagues showed up after Roberson was shot and didn’t know what

happened, but were trying to get to the bottom of it. 

“I’m not out here to hurt you, you know that. I can’t speak for everybody, but we ain’t out here to hurt you,” he said.

“I don’t really have the words to give you, but man, just keep your mind right, man. Please.” 

“It was wrong, bro,” the security guard replied. “It was wrong, bro. It was wrong.” 

The wrenching witness testimony captured on video is not reflected in the Illinois State Police statement about the

shooting released a couple days after the incident. 

The agency’s statement, which contained an account that is attributed to “witness statements,” said only that a

Midlothian officer, since identified as Covey, gave Roberson “multiple verbal commands” to drop his gun and get

on the ground before fatally shooting him. 

It makes no mention of security guards advising Covey that Roberson was one of them or that witnesses shared

significant distress over what they perceived to be a bad shooting. 

“This is the (stuff) that I don’t like,” one witness told an officer afterward during a conversation recorded on police

body camera. “The (people) that started this ..., they get away with it. And the (person) that’s here to protect us, he

A spokeswoman for the state police did not immediately respond to questions about the agency’s failure to

incorporate witness accounts critical of the officer’s behavior in their initial news release and said that, for now,

the agency was not planning to provide any further information about Roberson’s shooting. 

gets shot! What?!” 

zkoeske@tribpub.com 

Twitter @ZakKoeske 

Credit: Zak Koeske 
 
 


 
Nov. 22--A Cook County correctional officer owns the Robbins bar where security guard Jemel Roberson was

fatally shot by a Midlothian police officer on Nov. 11, officials said. 

Manny's Blue Room Lounge, which does not have a valid state liquor license and had its business license

suspended by the village Tuesday, is owned and operated by Nakeea Smith, her lawyer said. 

Smith, who also has used the last name Buchanan-Smith and Buchanan, has been a sheriff's office employee since

Sheriff's officials declined to discuss Smith's status with the department, saying she is the subject of an open

Smith declined to answer questions at the bar's administrative hearing Tuesday night. 

Her lawyer Robert McLaughlin also declined comment Tuesday and did not immediately respond to a request for

It wasn't immediately clear when Smith took over control of the bar, which for years had been owned and operated

Williams' company, The New Blue Room Corporation, last held a valid local business license to operate Manny's in

In July, Robbins issued Luxury US a business license and local liquor license to operate Manny's, 2911 S. Claire

Nakeea Buchanan-Smith is the president of Luxury Us, according to articles of incorporation filed with the

secretary of state. Robbins also identified her as the owner of Luxury US and the operator of Manny's in a business

2003, sheriff's officials said. 

internal investigation. 

comment Wednesday. 

by Emanuel Williams. 

April 2016, village officials said. 

Blvd., according to village officials. 

license revocation petition. 

an administrative hearing. 

READ MORE: Robbins suspends business license of village bar where Jemel Roberson was shot » 

Village trustees voted Tuesday to conditionally suspend Manny's business license, rather than revoke it, following

In order for Manny's to reopen, the bar's owners must provide the village with all necessary ownership documents;

obtain a valid state liquor license; and develop security and operational plans to be reviewed and approved by the

Robbins police chief, the board agreed. 

The bar does not have a valid state liquor license, which is necessary to serve alcohol, records show. The state

liquor license held by the bar's former owners expired on Sept. 30, according to the Illinois Liquor Control

Commission. 

The Nov. 11 incident that began with shots fired inside the bar and ended with a Midlothian officer shooting

Roberson in the bar parking lot was not the first disturbance under the new ownership, records show. 

Police responded to a call for reckless discharge of a firearm and a fight in progress on Aug. 12, and to the battery

of bar patrons on Oct. 28 and Oct. 30, according to police reports. 

The Aug. 12 incident report refers to a bar manager who presented responding officers with a business license

showing that Luxury US was "authorized for lounge activity." 

According to that report, the manager told officers seeking footage of the incident that surveillance cameras had

been taken down during recent bar remodeling and had not been reconnected. Officers, however, ended up finding

a camera above the bar's sign that faces the entrance of the parking lot, the report states. It is not clear, however,

whether any footage of the incident was recovered. 

Despite the recent police incidents, Manny's has not been cited, fined or reprimanded by the village, McLaughlin

argued Tuesday. Robbins officials did not immediately confirm the claim, but also did not rebut it during Tuesday's

"We're willing to make changes, if necessary," McLaughlin told the board, "but I also want to express that I think my

client has done a lot to make sure its business is operating properly within the ordinances of Robbins, to the liking

of this panel and the liking of local police enforcement." 

Liquor laws &regulations; Correctional personnel; Guards

Cook County Illinois United States--US Illinois

Roberson, Jemel

zkoeske@tribpub.com 

CREDIT: By Zak Koeske and Matt Walberg 
 
 


 
The Midlothian Police Department on Friday identified Ian Covey as the police officer who fatally shot security

guard Jemel Roberson outside a Robbins bar in November. 

The department’s announcement came shortly after an attorney for Roberson’s estate, which is suing Midlothian

and the officer, added the officer’s name as a defendant in the lawsuit —an action that named the officer publicly

for the first time. 

The Midlothian Police Department and Illinois State Police, which are investigating the shooting, had thus far

refused to name the officer, citing the possible threat to his safety if his name was released. 

Chief Daniel Delaney said Friday in a statement that the department had pledged to provide information about the

shooting as soon as possible when doing so would not interfere with the state police’s investigation, but did not

explain why releasing Covey’s name now would not obstruct the inquiry. 

Midlothian attorney Nick Valadez clarified that the village had decided to release Covey’s name Friday in response

to growing pressure from “other forces” that had requested the information. 

“Given that the vitriol has died down slightly and given that the name was being batted around, speculated to, as

well as the plaintiff pursuing it and amending the complaint, it just seemed to be time,” he said. 

Roberson’s attorney Gregory Kulis, who subpoenaed the Illinois State Police for records related to the shooting

—including the officer’s name —but has not received the documents, said he named the officer in his amended

complaint Friday because he believes the public has a right to know his name. 

“With all due respect to law enforcement, if an officer gets shot, they’ll announce the name of the suspect and put

him on TV,” Kulis said. “But here you have an innocent person get shot by the police, two months have gone by,

and they won’t even tell you who shot him.” 

ISP declined comment on the amended lawsuit and would not confirm that Covey was the officer who shot

Roberson. 

Covey, who is white, had reportedly been bombarded with death threats in the weeks following the fatal shooting.

He did not immediately return a request for comment. 

Roberson, who was black, had been working security inside Manny’s Blue Room Lounge in Robbins on Nov. 11

when a fight broke out between two groups of men and shots were fired. 

Amid the chaos, Roberson managed to apprehend one of the bar shooting suspects, and was holding the man at

gunpoint on the ground in Manny’s parking lot when a police officer shot him dead, witnesses said. 

Witnesses said the officer fired on Roberson, who was wearing garb clearly marked with the word “Security,”

without giving him an adequate opportunity to respond to his verbal commands. 

The incident sparked protests and calls for justice by activists, who demanded the officer’s immediate termination

and arrest for murder. 

with the regional SWAT team. 

Kulis said he had concluded Covey was the shooter based on information Midlothian police released about the

officer, including his number of years on the force, his number of years spent with another department and his role

Covey joined the Midlothian Police Department in March 2015, after spending three years with the Crestwood

Police Department, according the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board records. He completed

“Basic SWAT School,” in 2016, records show. 

Kulis said Thursday, as he has argued previously in court, that state police should name the officer who shot

Roberson and turn over the documents the agency has thus far withheld regarding its investigation into

Roberson’s shooting. 

He said ISP’s release of a news statement with its preliminary findings, which contradicted previously published

witness accounts of the incident, entitled him to see whatever evidence the agency had used to reach its initial

findings, which were attributed only to “witness statements.” 

“Normally, the Illinois State Police does not make any comments, issue any press releases, issue any information

while an investigation is being conducted,” Kulis said. “In this case, they took some moves to try and defuse the

situation because this case was receiving national attention.” 

In contrast to published witness accounts, the ISP statement, released 2 ½days after the shooting, said a

preliminary investigation had found Roberson was wearing “plain black clothing with no markings readily

identifying him as a Security Guard,” and that the officer had given him “multiple verbal commands” to drop his

gun and get on the ground before shooting him. 

Kulis said he believes ISP’s failure to release whatever evidence it used to make such preliminary statements is

hindering his ability to pursue his suit on behalf of Roberson’s estate. 

“The Illinois State Police knows witnesses and have presumably interviewed witnesses,” he said. “People come

and go, people move, their memories change…so we want to strike while the irons are hot, while people are still

interested in this case, to get as much information as we can. 

“I think the family has a right to know what happened and the family has a right to proceed with this lawsuit.” 

Witnesses; Shootings; Criminal investigations; Law enforcement; Attorneys; Guards

Company / organization:

Name: State Police-Illinois; NAICS: 922120; Name: Twitter Inc; NAICS: 519130

zkoeske@tribpub.com 

Twitter @ZakKoeske 

Credit: Zak Koeske 
 
 


 
CHICAGO –A security guard who was shot to death by police outside a suburban Chicago bar this week was given

“multiple verbal commands” to drop his weapon before an officer fired, Illinois State Police said in preliminary

findings.  

said.  

Jemel Roberson, 26, who worked as an armed guard at Manny's Blue Room Lounge, was pinning down a suspect

outside the bar in Robbins, Illinois, early Sunday morning when the police officer shot him.  

The person Roberson apprehended had allegedly fired a weapon inside the bar moments earlier, wounding multiple

people and drawing police from surrounding jurisdictions to rush to the establishment.  

The officer from neighboring Midlothian who killed Roberson saw a man decked out in “plain black clothing with no

markings readily identifying him as a security guard, armed with a gun,” the state police Public Integrity Task Force

“According to witness statements, the Midlothian Officer gave the armed subject multiple verbal commands to

drop the gun and get on the ground before ultimately discharging his weapon and striking the subject,” state police

said in a statement late Tuesday.  

“SECURITY. " 

Gregory Kulis, an attorney representing Roberson’s mother, said Roberson wore a hat emblazoned with the word

“Everybody was screaming out he was a security guard," witness Adam Harris told WGN-TV. "And they basically

saw a black man with a gun and killed him. ” 

Authorities have not released the name of the officer, who is white.  

Midlothian Police Chief Daniel Delaney said the officer joined the department nearly four years ago after working

for another law enforcement agency. The officer was a team leader for a regional SWAT team assembled by police

departments in Chicago's south suburbs.  

"We view this as the equivalent of a 'blue on blue,' friendly fire incident," Delaney said.  

In an initial statement on the incident, Delaney referred to Roberson as "a subject with a gun. " He later praised

Roberson.  

“The Midlothian Police Department is completely saddened by this tragic incident, and we give our heartfelt

condolences to Jemel, his family and his friends," he said. "There are no words that can be expressed as to the

sorrow his family is dealing with. ” 

More: Police chief praises security guard killed by cop: 'Jemel Roberson was a brave man' 

More: Police officer near Chicago fatally shot security guard who was detaining a suspect 

The preliminary investigation found that the incident started around 4 a. m. Sunday when an armed person entered

the lounge and fired, striking multiple people.  

The suspect suffered non-life-threatening wounds and was hospitalized. He has not been charged.  

The Cook County Sheriff’s Office is investigating the shooting inside the bar.  

Illinois State Police Sgt. Jacqueline Cepeda said there is no timeline for completing the investigation of the police

shooting. She declined to say whether the officer wore a body camera or if the incident was captured by any other

video surveillance.  

merited.  

Cepeda said the task force will present its findings to the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office prosecution

bureau, which will determine whether the shooting was legally justified or if charges against the officer are

State police asked any witnesses who saw the officer shoot Roberson or have knowledge about what happened

inside the bar to come forward.  

Beatrice Roberson, the security guard's mother, filed a federal lawsuit against Midlothian and the officer

–identified only as John Doe –seeking more than $1 million in damages.  

She called the officer’s action “unprovoked” and an “excessive and unreasonable” use of force.  

Roberson suffered multiple gunshot wounds, according to the Cook County Medical Examiner’s Office.  

Robbins is a predominantly black community of about 5,500 residents south of Chicago. Mayor Tyrone Ward

expressed anguish about the incident Tuesday evening.  

Ward declined to weigh in on the Midlothian officer’s decision to shoot, but he wondered whether the situation

would have ended differently if a Robbins officer had encountered Roberson first.  

"I wish it had been one of our (officers) who came across the situation," Ward said. "They may have been more

familiar with security (at the bar). That's my honest opinion. " 
 
 


 
This much is known about the death of Jemel Roberson: The armed security guard was trying to subdue a suspect

in a bar shooting in Robbins early Sunday when he was shot by a Midlothian police officer who responded to the

call. Roberson was black; the unnamed police officer is white. 

Beyond that, some basic facts are in dispute or unknown. 

An attorney for Roberson’s family said the 26-year-old Chicago man was wearing a hat with “security” printed on it.

Illinois State Police, which is investigating, released a contradictory statement, saying Roberson was clad in “plain

black clothing with no markings readily identifying him as a Security Guard.” 

The attorney, Greg Kulis, also claims in a lawsuit filed Monday that multiple witnesses shouted at the Midlothian

officer that Roberson was a security guard, but the state police report, citing witness statements, said its

preliminary finding was that the police officer gave multiple commands to Roberson to drop his firearm before the

officer opened fire. 

Late Wednesday, one of the other four people wounded in the gunfire exchange at the bar emerged. Dorian

Myrickes told the Tribune that he was also working security at the bar that night and that he saw the officer shoot

Roberson within seconds of warning him to drop his weapon. 

From his hospital bed, Myrickes also said Roberson had the word “security” printed on his hat and on the back

shoulder of the black sweatshirt he was wearing. But Myrickes acknowledged that the officer might not have been

able to see that lettering, according to a separate interview he gave to The Associated Press. 

According to the AP report, Myrickes said he did not hear the officer give any verbal warning before shooting

Another thing that is clear is the bar, Manny’s Blue Room Lounge, was not authorized to serve alcohol, since its

state liquor license expired on Sept. 30 and had not been renewed, according to the Illinois Liquor Control

Roberson. 

Commission. 

Here are some other questions that remain: 

•What were the circumstances of the gunfire at the bar that prompted the police response? Among the four

wounded was the person Roberson was restraining. That man is being treated for injuries that are not life-

threatening, but no charges have been filed, according to the Cook County sheriff’s office, which is handling the

investigation of the initial shooting. Police officials have said it stemmed from a verbal dispute and escalated

when someone left, returned with a gun and fired. 

•Little is known about the officer who shot Roberson. He is white and a seven-year police veteran. (Midlothian

officials clarified Wednesday he’s been with that department nearly four years and worked for three at another

department.) He is currently on paid leave while the state police Public Integrity Task Force investigates. 

•The details of Roberson’s employment at the bar are also murky. He was licensed to carry a firearm as a security

guard, according to state records, but it’s unclear if he was licensed to work as an armed security guard at Manny’s

specifically, since employers are also required under most circumstances to be licensed. Bar owners did not return

multiple calls for comment, and state officials requested that the Tribune obtain records via an open records

request. The request has been made, but the state’s response is still pending. Myrickes said he and Roberson were

not initially armed but that Roberson might have had the suspect’s gun when Roberson was shot, or might have at

some point retrieved his weapon from the car. 

mwalberg@chicagotribune.com 

Twitter @mattwalberg1 

Credit: Matthew Walberg 
 
 


 
By all accounts, Jemel Roberson courageously stopped an active shooter in a Chicago-area bar. 

After gunfire erupted, the 26-year-old African-American security guard pinned the alleged gunman to the ground, a

witness said. 

But moments later, a white Midlothian police officer arrived and killed the security guard, the police chief said.

Now, even the police chief is grieving the tragedy. 

"What we have learned is Jemel Roberson was a brave man who was doing his best to end an active shooter

situation at Manny's Blue Room," Midlothian Police Chief Daniel Delaney wrote on Facebook. 

"The Midlothian Police Department is completely saddened by this tragic incident and we give our heartfelt

condolences to Jemel, his family and his friends. There are no words that can be expressed as to the sorrow his

family is dealing with." 

injured, she added. 

"We view this as the equivalent of a 'blue on blue,' friendly fire incident," the police chief said in a press release. 

Police responded to the shooting around 4 a.m. at Manny's Blue Room Lounge in Robbins, about 20 miles south of

Chicago, Cook County Sheriff's Office spokeswoman Sophia Ansari said. Three people and an alleged shooter were

Then, after Roberson had apprehended the alleged gunman, the Midlothian officer shot Roberson outside the bar,

according to a federal lawsuit filed Monday. The suit calls the fatal shooting "excessive and unreasonable" and

says it violated Roberson's civil rights. 

Witnesses said security had asked several drunk men to leave the bar, and at least one person returned and

opened fire, CNN affiliate WGN reported. A bartender was among those victims, according to the lawsuit. 

After that shooting, Roberson "had somebody on the ground ... with his knee in back, with his gun in his back like,

'Don't move,' " Adam Harris, a witness, told WGN. 

The officer responding to the scene then fired at Roberson, the TV station reported, citing witnesses. 

"We all yelled. 'He's a security. He's a security,' and without ... giving any thought, they shot him," Harris told the

station. "The vest said security as well ... and they shot him in the side." 

The unnamed officer who fatally shot Roberson has been a member of the Midlothian department for nearly four

years, according to Delaney. The officer is assigned to the patrol division and also leads a regional swat team, the

police chief said. 

He also spent three years with another department, according to Delaney. 

The officer is on paid administrative leave, as is standard department policy, pending the outcome an investigation

by the Illinois State Police Public Integrity Task Force investigation. 

Midlothian police had asked the state police task force to investigate, which is department policy for an officer-

involved shooting, according to Delaney. 

In a statement, the Illinois State Police said its officials are investigating the shooting. It said that according to

witness statements, "the Midlothian Officer gave the armed subject multiple verbal commands to drop the gun and

get on the ground before ultimately discharging his weapon and striking the subject." 

It also said Roberson was armed with a gun and wearing plain black clothing with no markings readily identifying

him as a security guard. 

The department did not initially identify Roberson as a security guard because it immediately relinquished the

investigation to the State Police and did not know his name or position at the time, Delaney said Tuesday. 

The suspected gunman in the initial bar shooting is being treated at a local hospital and has not been charged,

Ansari said. 

'Jemel was trying to save people's lives' 

The lawsuit filed by Roberson's mother lists the unnamed Midlothian officer and the village of Midlothian as

defendants. It seeks damages of more than $1 million. 

"Jemel was trying to save people's lives. He was working security because a shooting had just taken place in the

establishment," the family's attorney, Gregory Kulis, told CNN affiliate WLS. 

"So, he was doing his job and holding on to somebody until ... police arrived," Kulis said. "And a police officer, our

feeling is, did not make the proper assessment and fired and killed Jemel." 

Roberson had a Firearms Owners' Identification Card, which allows Illinois residents to legally possess firearms or

ammunition, according to Ansari. 

Karen Sheley, director of the Police Practices Project for the American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois, suggested

that Roberson's race influenced the decision to shoot. 

"Working as a security guard while Black should not be a death sentence. In this case, police were more dangerous

to him than an active shooter who he apparently subdued," Sheley said in a statement. 

"The police killing of Mr. Roberson was avoidable. Here, a police officer's assumptions about Mr. Roberson,

apparently impacted by bias, rather than a clear-headed assessment of the situation, resulted in a tragedy." 

A church musician who wanted to be a cop 

family attorney S. Lee Merritt. 

Roberson was the father to a 9-month-old son, and the boy's mother is expecting their second child, according to

"My baby's not going to have his father for Christmas, his birthday, any holidays anymore," Avontea Boose, mother

to Roberson's children, told Don Lemon on "CNN Tonight" Wednesday. 

He was a gospel musician at several churches, according to according to WGN. Kulis said Roberson played the

organ and was scheduled to perform at church on the Sunday morning he was killed. 

Roberson was also preparing to embark on a career as a police officer, WGN reported. Roberson had planned to

take a police exam in March, according to activist Eric Russell. 

He's a protector of everybody," Boose said. "To anybody he knew, he got close to, he was a protector." 

"The very people that he wanted to be family with took his life," the Rev. Patricia Hill of Purposed Church said. 

Roberson's family members are "just distraught," said another pastor, the Rev. Walter Turner. 

"They are hurt, trying to find out answers, trying to figure out why did this have to happen," Turner told WGN. 

Loved ones and supporters held a vigil Monday night outside Manny's Blue Room Lounge, WGN reported. 
 
 


 
A Midlothian police officer who fatally shot security guard Jemel Roberson has been subjected to death threats,

with police patrols assigned to his house, according to the village.  

The disclosure came in a Dec. 13 letter from the village to the state attorney general's office in response to a Daily

Southtown request under the state's Freedom of Information Act for information about the officer. 

Roberson was shot in the early morning hours of Nov. 11 at Manny's Blue Room in Robbins, where he was working

security, when a fight broke out and shots were fired. 

Police from multiple jurisdictions responded to the shooting, including a white officer from neighboring Midlothian,

who shot Roberson in the parking lot as he held one of the suspected bar shooters on the ground at gunpoint,

according to witnesses. 

attorney general. 

The Southtown is seeking police reports generated by Midlothian police related to the shooting, as well as the

officer's personnel files. The Southtown is continuing to seek the information through FOIA requests with the

In its response to the chief of the attorney general's public access bureau, Midlothian notes the "officer has very

real fear for his life if he is identified at this time." 

The village cited posts on social media, including the police department's Facebook page, and said that apart from

death threats, there have been "intentional attempts to disclose (the officer's) home address." 

State police are investigating the shooting, and the officer is on administrative leave pending the outcome of that

investigation. 

investigation. 

"Demands for the officer's termination, prosecution and incarceration have been proposed regardless of what the

investigation and evidence determine," Midlothian's letter to the attorney general's office states. 

On Nov. 20, U.S. District Court Judge Joan Lefkow denied a motion by Roberson's family seeking to force the

disclosure of the officer. The matter is scheduled to be back before the judge on Jan. 18. 

In denying the Southtown's request for police reports and supplemental files pertaining to the shooting, Midlothian

notes that such information is in the hands of state police, and such a disclosure would jeopardize the

"The specific reasons disclosure would compromise the investigation involves witnesses who have yet to be

interviewed and suspects involved in the incident that have yet to be arrested," the letter reads. 

Witnesses and Roberson's family said that Roberson was wearing clothing identifying him as a security guard,

although a preliminary investigation by state police disputes that. State police said the Midlothian officer gave

Roberson "multiple verbal commands" to drop his gun and get on the ground, but witnesses said the officer started

firing at Roberson before giving him an adequate chance to respond to the verbal commands. 

Midlothian police later issued a statement offering condolences to Roberson's family and calling the shooting "the

equivalent of a 'blue on blue,' friendly fire incident." 

---------- 

mnolan@southtownstar.com 

Twitter @mnolan_j 

CAPTION: Photo: (Jemel) Roberson 

CREDIT: By Mike Nolan, Daily Southtown 
 
 


 
A Midlothian police officer gave “multiple verbal commands” to security officer Jemel Roberson to drop his gun

and get on the ground before fatally shooting Roberson at a Robbins bar Sunday morning, according to details

from a preliminary Illinois State Police investigation released late Tuesday. 

But an attorney for Roberson’s family questioned Wednesday how quickly police were releasing details of their

investigation, and he also took issue with a police description of what Roberson was wearing during the incident. 

State police, who said the investigation remains open, cited “witness statements” in their report. 

Roberson, who was black, was working security at the bar. The preliminary report says that Roberson was wearing

“plain black clothing with no markings readily identifying him as a Security Guard,” and was “armed with a gun in

the west parking lot” of the bar when the Midlothian officer, who is white and was responding to a “shots fired” call

at the bar, came upon him. 

The report by state police contradicts claims made by the attorney for Roberson’s family that Roberson was

wearing a hat that had “security” printed on it. The lawyer has also said witnesses told him several people called

out to the officer that Roberson was a security guard. 

The state police investigation found that about 4 a.m., “an armed suspect (had) entered the lounge and opened fire

striking multiple people inside the establishment.” Officers from Robbins, Midlothian and other suburban

departments had responded. 

witnesses. 

The preliminary investigation revealed Roberson, 26, of Chicago, was “attempting to subdue a subject suspected to

be involved in the initial shooting” at Manny’s Blue Room Lounge, 2911 S. Claire Blvd. in Robbins, according to

“According to witness statements, the (unidentified) Midlothian Officer gave the armed subject (Roberson)

multiple verbal commands to drop the gun and get on the ground before ultimately discharging his weapon and

striking the subject,” state police said. 

The state police report said “officers readily provided medical assistance to multiple gunshot victims, including

Roberson. Roberson was transported to a local area hospital where he was pronounced deceased.” 

Midlothian police asked the Illinois State Police Public Integrity Task Force to conduct an independent

investigation of the officer’s use of force. The Cook County sheriff’s office is investigating the initial shooting. 

The officer, a member of the patrol division and a team leader on the South Suburban Emergency Response Team,

is on paid administrative leave, pending the outcome of the Illinois State Police investigation. 

Midlothian police officials clarified Wednesday that he'd been with the department for nearly four years and had

spent three years prior to that with another agency. Previously, officials had said he'd been with the department for

seven years. 

The state police report was issued at the end of a day during which questions were still being asked about the

shooting and emotions still were running high. Online commenters and a small group of protesters outside the

Midlothian police station Tuesday night said Roberson was being a “good guy with a gun” and that he was shot by

police because he’s black. 

Greg Kulis, the attorney for Roberson’s family, said he’d never seen the state police issue a statement with

preliminary findings just 2 1/2 days into an investigation of an officer-involved shooting, saying he often has to

fight for months to even get reports from the agency. 

Kulis said he had no idea what information state police had relied on to make their preliminary findings, but he said

that he had spoken to witnesses who would testify that Roberson was dressed in marked security garb and that

bystanders were yelling at the Midlothian officer that Roberson was a security guard before the officer opened fire. 

“They can say what they want to say, the facts will, hopefully, ultimately show what occurred,” he said, adding that

he didn’t put a lot of credence in the agency’s findings, citing a joint WBEZ and Better Government Association

investigation that found none of the officers involved in 113 suburban Cook County police shootings since 2005

had been disciplined, fired or charged criminally. 

“Out of 100-and-something shootings, I don’t believe that 113 of them were justified,” Kulis said. 

The lawyer said he planned to immediately request that state police turn over “every single" document its

investigators used to make their preliminary findings. 

“Guess what? They’ve issued a statement. I’m entitled to see it now,” Kulis said. 

Illinois State Police Sgt. Jacqueline Cepeda said: "At this time the investigation is open and ongoing, and the press

release sent out (Tuesday) is all we will be disseminating as of now. Should we send any additional information

out regarding any updates to the case we will ensure you receive the information.” 

Also Wednesday, an official with the Illinois Liquor Control Commission said the bar’s state liquor license had

expired Sept. 30 and that the agency had not yet received a renewal application. A $500 penalty is imposed for a

lapsed license, and additional fines can be issued for repeated license lapses or if other violations of state liquor

laws occur, the agency said. 

license. 

It was not immediately clear what penalties the business could face if it served alcohol without a valid state liquor

As to whether Manny’s has a valid local liquor license, Robbins Village Administrator Keith Freeman said

Wednesday: “In order for you to do business in Robbins, you have to have a valid liquor license, so yes, they had a

valid liquor license.” He did not immediately provide a copy of the document. 

Matthew Walberg is a Chicago Tribune reporter. 

zkoeske@tribpub.com 

mwalberg@chicagotribune.com 

Twitter @ZakKoeske 

Twitter @mattwalberg1 

Credit: Zak Koeske, Matthew Walberg 
 
 


 
The Illinois State Police took steps on Tuesday to defend the actions of a suburban Chicago police officer who

killed an armed security guard on Sunday, claiming that the guard was not wearing a uniform and ignored verbal

commands to drop his weapon. But witnesses have contradicted that account, and it was not clear how the State

Police reached its conclusions. 

The findings by the state's Public Integrity Task Force, the lead agency in the case, were based on a preliminary

investigation into the killing of the guard, Jemel Roberson, 26, who was responding to a shooting at a bar. But a

lawyer for his family disputed the state's account and criticized the agency for rushing to judgment just days after

the deadly encounter. 

"We are three days into this and they are saying preliminarily that it was a good shoot?" the lawyer, Greg Kulis, said

in an interview on Wednesday. "They traditionally take nine months or longer." 

The killing of Mr. Roberson has ignited protests and demands for justice, just a month after a Chicago police

officer was found guilty of second-degree murder in the high-profile killing of Laquan McDonald, a black teenager

who was shot 16 times by an officer in 2014. Protesters have pointed out that Mr. Roberson, who was black, was

killed even though he was a "good guy with a gun," the type of person put forth by the National Rifle Association

and President Trump as a solution to mass shootings. 

The shooting on Sunday morning occurred while Mr. Roberson was chasing after a gunman who had opened fire

inside the bar, Manny's Luxury Lounge in Robbins, Ill. The man had struck four people inside, and Mr. Roberson

was trying to detain him when the police arrived. 

A white officer with the Midlothian Police Department encountered Mr. Roberson in a parking lot outside the bar,

and according to the State Police, gave "multiple verbal commands" for Mr. Roberson to drop his weapon. The

officer then opened fire on Mr. Roberson, the State Police said. 

On Tuesday, Chief Daniel Delaney of the Midlothian Police Department said he was "completely saddened by this

tragic incident." 

is dealing with." 

"What we have learned is Jemel Roberson was a brave man who was doing his best to end an active shooter

situation," Chief Delaney wrote on Facebook. "There are no words that can be expressed as to the sorrow his family

The man suspected of opening fire inside the bar was being treated on Wednesday in a hospital, the Cook County

Sheriff's Office said. He has not yet been charged. 

Mr. Roberson, who lived in Chicago, had hoped to become a police officer, Mr. Kulis said. Other security guards at

the bar encouraged him to stay home on Saturday night because he had an early engagement the next morning,

playing the organ at his church. But Mr. Roberson kept his promise and showed up at work. 

His mother, Beatrice Roberson, has declined all news media requests for interviews, Mr. Kulis said. 

In the days after the shooting, Mr. Kulis filed a federal lawsuit against the Midlothian officer, whose name has not

been made public, on Ms. Roberson's behalf. He also filed a request in court for the Midlothian Police Department,

along with the other agencies that responded to the scene, to preserve all evidence in the case. And on

Wednesday, Mr. Kulis said he planned to subpoena the State Police for the information it used to reach its

preliminary conclusions. 

"It's really bizarre that their preliminary statement is that arguably the shooting was justified," Mr. Kulis said. 

Mr. Kulis said he located several witnesses whose accounts contradicted the State Police's findings. They told him

that Mr. Roberson was wearing a black ski cap with the word "Security" across the front, Mr. Kulis said. 

One witness also said that he screamed at the officer not to shoot Mr. Roberson. "He was yelling, 'He's security,

A rally in Midlothian, Ill., protesting the fatal shooting of Jemel Roberson, 26, a security guard. (PHOTOGRAPH BY

he's security, he's security,"' Mr. Kulis said. 

None of those witnesses have been interviewed by the State Police, Mr. Kulis said. 

"I don't know what they are relying on," Mr. Kulis said. 

Photograph 

BRIAN CASSELLA/CHICAGO TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 
 
 



 
ST. LOUIS - Police have identified a man fatally shot by a St. Louis police officer who was injured while

investigating a stolen SUV on Wednesday afternoon. 

Demario Bass, 29, was shot in the chest by the police officer and died at a hospital, police said. 

The officer, 31, was injured when Bass sped backward in the stolen SUV, trapping the officer between the open

door and body of the SUV, police said. He suffered a head injury that Chief John Hayden described Wednesday as

"very significant." The officer, who has been a member of the force for two years, was in fair condition at a hospital

with a cut to his head and trauma to his mouth, police said in an update Thursday. 

Bass lived in the 8500 block of Mora Lane in St. Louis, a little over a mile from the gas station at Goodfellow

Boulevard and Lillian Avenue where he was killed. A woman at his home Thursday said she was Bass' mother but

was too distraught to speak to a reporter. 

In a more detailed account of what happened Wednesday, the police department said Thursday that a license plate

reader had seen a plate belonging to a stolen 2004 Hyundai Santa Fe heading south on Goodfellow from West

Florissant Avenue at 12:49 p.m. 

The description of the vehicle was broadcast, and two officers in a patrol car spotted the maroon SUV at the BP

station at 5003 North Goodfellow within minutes, police said. The stolen SUV was parked at the gas pumps facing

south. The officers pulled in front of the vehicle. 

One officer got out and walked to the SUV, spotting Bass inside, the department said. The officer opened the car

"The suspect suddenly put the stolen vehicle into reverse and accelerated backwards at a high rate of speed," the

door to arrest Bass. 

department said in a statement. 

vehicle. 

The officer became lodged between the open door and the SUV, the statement said. The SUV moved backward and

crashed into a canopy support, causing the door to close on the officer and throwing him at least partly into the

The SUV rolled forward and came to a stop, and the officer fell backward to the ground. 

The officer fired at least one time during the encounter, hitting Bass in the chest, the department said. Hayden said

Wednesday that it wasn't immediately clear when the officer fired, but that video captured the incident and that will

be part of the investigation. 

The other officer did not fire his weapon and was not hurt, Hayden said. 

The gas station is just north of Interstate 70 in the Walnut Park West neighborhood. 

CREDIT: From staff reports 
 
 

St. Louis police name suspect who was fatally shot - Associated Press
State Wire: Missouri (MO) - December 13, 2018
December 13, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Missouri (MO)

ST . LOUIS (AP) — St. Louis police have identified the man fatally shot by an officer during a violent
incident on a gas station parking lot.

Demario B ass .
Police on Thursday identified the suspect as 29-year-old Demario B ass

On Wednesday, two officers on patrol spotted a stolen 2004 Hyundai Santa Fe at a BP gas station.
One officer approached the driver's side door of the SUV and opened it in an attempt to take the
suspect into custody.

Police say the suspect suddenly accelerated backward, causing the officer to become lodged
between the open door and the frame of the SUV. T he officer fell when the SUV struck a canopy.

At some point the officer fired his gun. Bass was struck in the torso and died.

T he officer is hospitalized in fair condition.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
Dec. 21-- 

ST. LOUIS The St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department released surveillance video of a fatal encounter between

officers and a suspected car thief at a north city gas station. 

The incident occurred Wednesday, December 12 at the BP gas station near the intersection of Goodfellow

Boulevard and Lillian Avenue. 

According to police, a license plate reader spotted a recently stolen vehicle at around 1 p.m. near the gas station.

The citys Real-Time Crime Center sent out an alert to officers to search for the vehicle. 

Police found the stolen vehicle at the gas station. An officer on foot confronted the driver of the stolen vehicle

while he was sitting at a gas pump with the vehicle's door open. 

The video shows the suspect put the vehicle in reverse and attempted to escape. The vehicle dragged one officer

and crashed into a pumping area on the other side of the gas station. 

The officer being dragged fired his weapon during the altercation and struck the suspect in the chest. Both the

officer and suspect were injured and taken to the hospital. The suspect, identified as 29-year-old Demario Bass,

was pronounced dead at the hospital. 
 
 

Surveillance footage released showing fatal St. - St. Louis Post-Dispatch
(MO) - December 22, 2018 - page A4
December 22, 2018 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) | Christine Byers St. Louis Post-Dispatch | Page A4

ST . LOUIS • Thirteen seconds.

T hat’s how long it took for what started as a St. Louis police officer’s approaching a stolen car to
escalate to a fatal shooting by police, according to surveillance footage the department released
Friday afternoon.

T he two-minute video of the Dec. 12 shooting was captured by surveillance cameras at the BP gas
station at Goodfellow Boulevard and Lillian Avenue.

T he video begins with a summary of the encounter, saying officers “observed a stolen vehicle while
on patrol.” T he video highlights the police vehicle as it parks in front of a stolen 2004 Hyundai
Santa Fe, which was at a gas pump.

T he video shows an officer approaching the SUV and opening the driver’s side door. T he Hyundai
suddenly reverses, spins around on the parking lot with the officer inside the driver’s side, and
strikes another gas pump. T he officer falls to the ground with his weapon drawn.

T he Hyundai’s driver, Demario B ass
31, with about two years on the force, suffered “significant” head injuries while he was pinned
between the open door and the body of the stolen SUV, according to Chief John Hayden.

Demario B ass , 29, died from a gunshot wound to the chest. T he officer,

“As the Chief stated, we believe the officer discharged his weapon some time between confronting
the suspect at the driver-door of the suspect vehicle and when the vehicle was involved in the
accident,” said a statement by the police department.

T he police department also included a slowed-down version of the encounter.

T he video also shows officers rendering aid to Bass while waiting for paramedics.

Police found drugs in the SUV but did not find a gun, the press statement says. T he vehicle had
been stolen two days before the encounter.

T he officer has been released from the hospital and is recovering at home, according to the
release.

T he fatal shooting is the only one so far this year by St. Louis police officers. Last year, there were
at least eight.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 St. Louis Post-Dispatch

 
Police identify man shot and killed in stolen car - St. Louis Post-
Dispatch (MO) - December 14, 2018 - page A4
December 14, 2018 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) | From staff reports | Page A4

ST . LOUIS • Police have identified a man fatally shot by a St. Louis police officer who was injured
while investigating a stolen SUV on Wednesday afternoon.

Demario B ass , 29, was shot in the chest by the police officer and died at a hospital, police said.
Demario B ass

T he officer, 31, was injured when Bass sped backward in the stolen SUV, trapping the officer
between the open door and body of the SUV, police said. He suffered a head injury that Chief John
Hayden described Wednesday as “very significant.” T he officer, who has been a member of the
force for two years, was in fair condition at a hospital with a cut to his head and trauma to his
mouth, police said in an update T hursday.

Bass lived in the 8500 block of Mora Lane in St. Louis, a little over a mile from the gas station at
Goodfellow Boulevard and Lillian Avenue where he was killed. A woman at his home Thursday said
she was Bass’ mother but was too distraught to speak to a reporter.

In a more detailed account of what happened Wednesday, the police department said T hursday
that a license plate reader had seen a plate belonging to a stolen 2004 Hyundai Santa Fe heading
south on Goodfellow from West Florissant Avenue at 12:49 p.m.

T he description of the vehicle was broadcast, and two officers in a patrol car spotted the maroon
SUV at the BP station at 5003 North Goodfellow within minutes, police said. T he stolen SUV was
parked at the gas pumps facing south. T he officers pulled in front of the vehicle.

One officer got out and walked to the SUV, spotting Bass inside, the department said. T he officer
opened the car door to arrest Bass.

“T he suspect suddenly put the stolen vehicle into reverse and accelerated backwards at a high rate
of speed,” the department said in a statement.

T he officer became lodged between the open door and the SUV, the statement said. T he SUV
moved backward and crashed into a canopy support, causing the door to close on the officer and
throwing him at least partly into the vehicle.

T he SUV rolled forward and came to a stop, and the officer fell backward to the ground.

T he officer fired at least one time during the encounter, hitting Bass in the chest, the department
said. Hayden said Wednesday that it wasn’t immediately clear when the officer fired, but that video
captured the incident and that will be part of the investigation.

T he other officer did not fire his weapon and was not hurt, Hayden said.

T he gas station is just north of Interstate 70 in the Walnut Park West neighborhood.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 St. Louis Post-Dispatch

 

Cape detective shoots Millville teen - AG - Press of Atlantic City, The
(NJ) - October 20, 2018 - page 1A
October 20, 2018 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | JOHN DeROSIER & VINCENT JACKSON Staff Writers | Page
1A

VINELAND - T he state Attorney General's Office on Friday released the name of the Millville teen
who was fatally shot by police.

Jacob Servais
Jacob Servais , 19, was shot by a detective with either the Cape May County Prosecutor's Office or
Lower Township Police Department on T hursday.

T he Attorney General's Office did not say why Cape May County authorities were operating in
Cumberland County.

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="fb6f861e-d2e2-11e8-aa4c-00163ec2aa77"}}

Lower Township police and the Cape May County Prosecutor's Office did not respond to requests
for comment. T he Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office deferred comment to the Attorney
General's Office. T he Vineland Police Department declined to comment.

T he shooting occurred about 3:30 p.m. in the parking lot of Just for Wheels Car, T ruck and Van
Rental at 2587 S. Delsea Drive, Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said in a statement.

According to a preliminary investigation, the shooting occurred when detectives from the Cape
May County Prosecutor's Office and Lower Township encountered Servais as they were
conducting a law-enforcement operation, Grewal said.

T he man was taken by ambulance to Inspira Medical Center Vineland, where he was pronounced
dead.

None of the detectives was injured, Grewal said.

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="2b56a174-d2f6-11e8-98e2-00163ec2aa77"}}

State Police charged Servais in June with death by auto in an Elk T ownship, Gloucester County,
crash that killed Servais' 17-year-old passenger, according to the Daily Journal of Vineland. T he
crash came after a police chase that started in Franklin T ownship, the Journal reported.

T hursday's was the second fatal police-involved shooting in Vineland this year. On July 14, Vineland
police shot and killed Rashaun Washington, 37, of Camden, after a standoff in which Washington
threatened to trigger an explosive device.

T he Attorney General's Independent Prosecutor Directive, issued in 2006 and revised in 2015,

requires the attorney general to review all police deadly force investigations, and in some cases
conduct them, Grewal said.

T he directive further states that unless the undisputed facts indicate the use of force was justified
under the law, the circumstances of the incident must be presented to a grand jury, composed of
23 civilians, for independent review, Grewal said.

Staff Writer Molly Bilinski contributed to this report.

Contact: 609-272-7260 JDeRosier@pressofac.com T witter @ACPressDeRosier

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 
No word yet on why police fatally shot a 19-year- - South Jersey Times
(NJ) - October 25, 2018 - page 010
October 25, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Matt Gray For South Jersey Times | Page 010

A man shot to death by a Cape May County detective last week was under indictment in two
counties, facing a vehicular homicide indictment in another county and was wanted on a bench
warrant when he died.

But it’s not clear if any of his legal woes had to do with the confrontation that led to his death.

Jacob Servais , 19, of Millville, was shot in the parking lot of a Vineland car rental business on
Jacob Servais
T hursday afternoon. T he state Attorney General’s Office is investigating the incident, but has
offered few details about what happened.

Authorities have only said that detectives with the Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office and Lower
T ownship police “encountered” Servais as they were “conducting a law enforcement operation.”

One of the detectives shot Servais, who was later pronounced dead at a hospital. No detectives
were injured.

Authorities have not said if Servais had a weapon or if he threatened the officers in any way. T hey
also haven’t said what Cape May County detectives were doing in Cumberland County.

It’s not clear if the detectives’ body or vehicle-mounted cameras captured the incident.

A representative for the Delsea Drive business where the shooting occurred — Just for Wheels Car,
T ruck and Van Rental — said there are security cameras around the establishment, but would not
say if a camera recorded the shooting. He also would not say if Servais was a customer.

Servais was no stranger to law enforcement and had several outstanding charges at the time of
his death.

He was at the wheel of a pickup truck on Route 55 in Elk Township on June 26 when he crashed into
a tree, killing his passenger, 17-year-old Victor M. Garcia, of Vineland.

An officer in Franklin Township had tried to stop the vehicle for an equipment violation a short time
earlier, but broke off the effort on Route 55 when Servais picked up speed and it was obvious he
didn’t plan to stop, according to Franklin Township Police Lt. Matt DeCesari.

Servais was charged with vehicular homicide and skipped a Sept. 6 pre-indictment conference on
that charge in Gloucester County. T hat’s when a bench warrant was issued for his arrest.

In addition to that case, Servais was indicted this month on an aggravated assault charge from July

2017 in Burlington County. Servais was accused of punching another resident at a juvenile
detention facility in Bordentown and breaking his jaw.

He was due in court Oct. 29 for a post-indictment arraignment on that charge.

Servais was also indicted in Cumberland County earlier this year on a charge of receiving stolen
property. T hat case involved a December 2017 arrest.

Efforts to reach members of Servais’ family were unsuccessful.

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
Man fatally shot by detectives identified as probe - Associated Press
State Wire: New Jersey (NJ) - October 19, 2018
October 19, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New Jersey (NJ)

VINELAND, N.J. (AP) — Authorities have identified a man fatally shot by detectives in southern New
Jersey.

T he attorney general's office is investigating the shooting that occurred Thursday afternoon at a
truck rental center in Vineland.

Authorities say detectives from the Cape May County prosecutor's office and Lower T ownship
police were conducting a law enforcement operation at the time.

One of the detectives shot 19-year-old Jacob Servais
local hospital.

Jacob Servais  of Millville, who was pronounced dead at a

None of the detectives was injured.

T he investigation is being conducted by the attorney general's shooting response team. Under
state law, the matter will be sent to a grand jury for review unless the undisputed facts indicate the
shooting was justified.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Man was suspect in brutal home invasion - Star-Ledger, The (Newark,
NJ) - December 7, 2018 - page 003
December 7, 2018 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ) | Matt Gray For The Star-Ledger | Page 003

A day before Jacob L. Servais was killed by a detective, prosecutors say he and three others broke
into a South Jersey home and brutally beat a man.

An investigation into that home invasion is what brought detectives to Vineland, where they
encountered Servais in the parking lot of a vehicle rental business on Oct. 18. Servais, 19, of Millville,
was shot to death after investigators say he tried to run down a Cape May County Prosecutor’s
Office detective with his car.

Detectives from that office and Lower Township police were in Vineland surveilling the business as
part of their investigation into the Oct. 17 home invasion in Lower Township in which a homeowner
was restrained and beaten.

Detectives believed Servais would show up in Vineland to pick up his girlfriend, Deshyamma R.
Dalton, 22, of Salem, who was returning a car. Both arrived as expected.

Prosecutor’s office Detective John Caccia fired three rounds from his service weapon as Servais
threatened the officers, according to recently released documents.

In a statement issued Wednesday afternoon, Cape May County prosecutors announced the
arrests of three people, including Dalton, in connection with the Oct. 17 home invasion on Old Mill
Drive in North Cape May.

Servais, Dalton, Michael Woods Jr. and Jeramy J. T hompson-Pierce allegedly entered the home
shortly after midnight and assaulted a 48-year-old man.

T hey restrained the victim and repeatedly struck him with a rifle “over an extended period of time,”
eventually breaking the rifle’s wooden stock, prosecutors said. T he victim suffered “severe” injuries
to his head and hand and was hospitalized for several days.

Up until now, officials had declined to describe the crime for which Servais was being sought when
he died.

Investigators delayed reporting details about the home invasion for fear that other suspects in the
case might flee the state, explained Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office Chief Paul Skill.

Dalton was arrested Oct. 22 and charged with robbery, conspiracy to commit robbery, aggravated
assault, criminal restraint and theft.

T hompson-Pierce, 19, of Vineland, and Woods, 20, of Millville, were arrested Nov. 20 on charges

of attempted murder, robbery, conspiracy to commit robbery, conspiracy to commit attempted
murder, aggravated assault, criminal restraint and theft.

Both were also charged with weapons offenses on Nov. 29.

All three were placed in Cape May County jail pending court hearings.

At the time of his death, Servais was facing charges in three other cases. He was under indictment
for aggravated assault in Burlington County, for receiving stolen property in Cumberland County
and was facing indictment for death by auto in Gloucester County.

Servais’ death remains under investigation by the state Attorney General’s Office.

Caccia, an eight-year veteran of the force, remains on administrative duty pending the outcome of
that review, Skill confirmed.

Anyone with information about the home invasion is asked to contact the prosecutor’s office at
609-465-1135, the Lower Township Police Department at 609-886-1619, the Cape May County
Sheriff’s Tip Line at cmcsheriff.net (click the T ip411 link) or Cape May County Crime Stoppers at
609-465-2800.

Copyrig ht 2018 The Star-Ledg er. All Rights Reserved.

 
Questions in police shooting of man, 19 Shooting - South Jersey Times
(NJ) - October 20, 2018 - page 001
October 20, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Matt Gray and Alex Napoliello For South Jersey Times | Page
001

T he state Attorney General’s Office is investigating a fatal police-involved shooting that happened
T hursday afternoon in Cumberland County.

Detectives from the Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office and Lower Township Police
Department, also in Cape May County, were conducting a “law enforcement operation” when they
“encountered” a man and shot him in the parking lot of the Just for Wheels Car, T ruck and Van
Rental business on South Delsea Drive in Vineland around 3:30 p.m., according to the Attorney
General’s Office.

T he man was identified by authorities Friday morning as 19-year-old Jacob Servais

Jacob Servais  of Millville.

He had been transported Thursday to Inspira Medical Center in Vineland, where he was
pronounced dead.

Investigators have not said whether he had a weapon during the encounter.

No detectives were injured.

“T he subject was shot by one of the detectives,” a statement from the Attorney General’s Office
said.

It did not specify which law enforcement agency the detective was from.

T he attorney general’s Shooting Response Team is handling the investigation, which is typical
when an incident involves officers of county agencies.

T he statement did not offer any fur

ther details about the incident, and it was unclear exactly why detectives from Cape May County
were in Vineland.

T ony Lee, an employee at Joshua Motors, which is adjacent to where the shooting occurred on
South Delsea Drive, was sitting in a vehicle at the business when he heard gunfire.

He said he believed the incident began with a traffic stop.

“I heard a couple of bangs ... four or five,” Lee recalled. “And I heard when they said, ‘Get down, get
down.’

“T hen, when I took a look on my left side, there was about four or five policemen going around the
car,” Lee said. “T hat’s when I got out, went inside the building, because there was still some shots.”

T hen, Lee said, he saw numerous police cruisers and an ambulance converge on the area.

Police closed the busy street during their investigation, and stretched caution tape across the
parking lot.

Officers at the scene said they could not comment on what had happened.

At 6 p.m. T hursday, there were still about a dozen police vehicles on the scene and the road
remained closed.

Cumberland County Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae, who usually issues news releases on police-
involved shootings in the county, referred comment to the Attorney General’s Office.

In June, Servais was charged with death by auto and related offenses in Gloucester County
following a deadly crash in which he was the driver — and being chased by police.

Servais’ pickup truck crashed into a tree off Route 55 in Elk Township and caught fire.

His 17-year-old passenger died a short time later at a local hospital, the Daily Journal of Vineland
reported.

T he site also reported Franklin Township police had been chasing Servais’ vehicle shortly before the
crash, but had halted the pursuit due to his erratic driving.

Court records show he did not appear in court last month in that case.

It’s unclear whether the Gloucester case had anything to do with his interaction with police
T hursday night.

NJ Advance Media staff writer Rebecca Everett contributed to this report.

Alex Napoliello, NJ Advance Media, anapoliello@njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
Authorities identify detective who fatally shot - Associated Press State
Wire: New Jersey (NJ) - November 1, 2018
November 1, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New Jersey (NJ)

VINELAND, N.J. (AP) — Authorities have identified a police detective who fatally shot a man in
southern New Jersey last month.

T he state attorney general's office says Cape May County Prosecutor's Office Detective John
Caccia fired his Glock 19 service pistol three times at 19-year-old Jacob Servais
Jacob Servais  in the parking lot
of a vehicle rental center in Vineland on Oct. 18. T he Millville man was taken to a hospital but died
there a short time later.

Cacia's name was made public Wednesday. But authorities haven't said whether Servais was
armed at the time, citing the ongoing investigation.

Law enforcement officers were conducting surveillance in the area at the time. It was part of an
investigation of a violent crime in which Servais was a potential suspect.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
911 calls released in fatal shooting Detectives - South Jersey Times (NJ) -
November 21, 2018 - page 001
November 21, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Matt Gray and Alex Napoliello For South Jersey Times | Page
001

Detectives investigating a violent crime in Cape May County believed their suspect in that case
would be at a Vineland vehicle rental business in what would soon escalate into a fatal officer-
involved shooting in the parking lot.

Jacob Servais
Jacob Servais , 19, of Millville, was fatally shot by Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office Detective
John Caccia on Oct. 18.

T he state Attorney General’s Office, which is handling the investigation, has said that Caccia fired
his service weapon three times. But authorities have not said whether Servais was armed or what
he did to threaten the officer.

T he state Attorney General’s Office on Monday made public audio of 911 calls and dispatch
communications from the incident via an NJ Advance Media Open Public Records Act request.

T he calls were heavily redacted to protect information that pertains to the ongoing investigation,
officials said.

According to exchanges between Cape May County detectives and Vineland police, investigators
were waiting for a woman to return a Toyota Carola to Just Four Wheels on South Delsea Drive.

Investigators believed their suspect would be at the business with the woman, the calls say.

T he Attorney General’s Office previously confirmed that Servais was a suspect in a prior violent
crime and that detectives from Lower Township police and the prosecutor’s office were
conducting surveillance in the area of the rental business when the shooting occurred.

Officials have not revealed details about the earlier crime. T hey also have not revealed what
Servais, who was driving a Nissan Altima, did to endanger the detectives.

A use-of-force report filed by the prosecutor’s office states Caccia fired because he was “in fear of
imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury to himself or another officer.”

T he detectives at the scene when the shooting occurred were not wearing body cameras. Recently
released body camera footage, from Vineland officers who responded after the shooting, shows
someone performing CPR on Servais as he lay on the ground next to a vehicle.

While some of the communications released Monday indicated Cape May investigators notified
Vineland police about their planned operations in Cumberland County, other exchanges revealed

confusion over whether this notification had been made.

Servais had a lengthy criminal record.

He was under indictment in two counties and facing indictment in a third when he was killed. He
was also wanted on a bench warrant for skipping a court appearance in Gloucester County.

He was facing indictment on a vehicular homicide charge in Gloucester County following a June
crash that killed a friend in his vehicle.

Servais was indicted in early October on an aggravated assault charge after he allegedly punched
another resident in a juvenile detention facility in Bordentown and broke his jaw.

He was also indicted in Cumberland County this year on a charge of receiving stolen property. T hat
case involved a December 2017 arrest.

Matt Gray, NJ Advance Media, mgray @njadvancemedia.com

Alex Napoliello, NJ Advance Media, anapoliello @njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
Report: Man drove at police when shot Shooting - South Jersey Times
(NJ) - November 27, 2018 - page 001
November 27, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Matt Gray and Alex Napoliello For South Jersey Times | Page
001

T he South Jersey man shot to death by a detective last month apparently threatened to run down
officers with his car, according to documents released Monday afternoon.

Jacob L. Servais, 19, of Millville, was under investigation for a crime in Cape May County when he
crossed paths with investigators from that county in the parking lot of a vehicle rental business in
Vineland.

Detectives from the Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office and Lower Township Police were casing
the rental business because they believed Servais would be there with an acquaintance who was
returning a car, according to previously released police dispatch communications.

Servais was at the wheel of a Nissan Altima when prosecutor’s office Detective John Caccia fired
three rounds from his service weapon.

T he prosecutor’s office use of force report, made public Monday in response to an Open Public
Records Act (OPRA) request, indicates Servais “resisted police officer control” and
“threatened/attacked officer or another with motor vehicle.”

No detectives were injured.

Apart from the vehicle he was driving, the report indicates Servais had no other weapon in his
possession.

Caccia was in plainclothes during the incident. T he 36-year-old detective is an eight-year veteran of
the prosecutor’s office, according to the report.

T he state Attorney General’s Office is investigating the shooting, which was not captured on body
camera.

Officials have not revealed details of the earlier Cape May County crime that was under
investigation when the shooting occurred, apart from describing it as “violent.”

At the time of his death, Servais was under indictment for aggravated assault in Burlington County,
for receiving stolen property in Cumberland County and was facing indictment for death by auto in
Gloucester County.

Matt Gray, NJ Advance Media, mgray @njadvancemedia.com

Alex Napoliello, NJ Advance Media, anapoliello@njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
No video of fatal police shooting in Vineland - - Press of Atlantic City,
The (NJ) - November 10, 2018 - page 1A
November 10, 2018 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | MOLLY BILINSKI Staff Writer | Page 1A

T here is no body camera footage of a Cape May County Prosecutor's detective fatally shooting a
teenager in Vineland last month, according to the state Attorney General's Office.

Jacob Servais , 19, of Millville, was shot and killed by Detective John Caccia on Oct. 18 during an
Jacob Servais
investigation into a violent crime, according to the Attorney General's Office.

In response to an Open Public Records Act request for body-worn camera footage from the
shooting, the state Division of Criminal Justice said in a letter received Friday that the division "does
not make or maintain footage that captured the shooting or the events leading up to the incident."

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="c056aaf2-d329-11e8-8185-00163ec2aa77"}}

T he Attorney General's Office, in responding to T he Press of Atlantic City's public records request
for other footage from the shooting, did provide video of Vineland police officers responding after
Servais was shot. T hat video included officers setting up a perimeter and footage of someone
performing CPR on Servais.

T he office also provided the use-of-force report from the shooting. T he summary of the incident
says Caccia "discharged his issued duty weapon in fear of imminent danger of death or serious
bodily injury."

Cape May County Prosecutor Jeffrey H. Sutherland, asked whether his office would release body
camera footage the day after the shooting, replied by email that his office "will be providing no
additional responses until we receive clearance from the Attorney General's Office."

Al Wheeler, an attorney who represented Servais in two property-crime cases in Cumberland
County that were dismissed days before the shooting, said it seems like fatal police-involved
shootings are "a genuine option that isn't special anymore" and it's "demoralizing."

"Sadly, I'm not surprised at all that they did not have body cameras, since we don't know what kind
of operation they were involved in," he said, adding he's "waiting for the other things that will give
us an indication about what went on out there."

T he shooting took place about 3:30 p.m. in the parking lot of Just for Wheels Car, T ruck and Van
Rental at 2587 S. Delsea Drive. Caccia and other detectives from the Cape May County
Prosecutor's Office and Lower Township Police Department were conducting surveillance for an
investigation into a violent crime that occurred in the county earlier in the month, Attorney General
Gurbir S. Grewal said in a statement.

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="1ad8098a-dd3e-11e8-ac4b-00163ec2aa77"}}

Caccia has been placed on administrative leave, Cape May County Prosecutor's Capt. Michael
Emmers said. Caccia's annual salary is $73,518, public records show.

Detectives believed Servais was a suspect, Grewal said. Whether Servais had a weapon is still under
investigation.

T he Oct. 18 incident was the second time a man was fatally shot in Vineland by authorities this
year.

In July, Vineland police fatally shot Rashaun Washington, of Camden, during a standoff outside a
home. Washington threatened to trigger an explosive device.

Contact: 609-272-7241 Mbilinski@pressofac.com T witter @ACPressMollyB

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 
Officer is identified in Vineland shooting - - Philadelphia Inquirer, The
(PA) - November 1, 2018 - page B01
November 1, 2018 | Philadelphia Inquirer, The (PA) | Robert Moran STAFF WRITER | Page B01

T he New Jersey Attorney General's Office on Wednesday identified the detective who fatally shot a
19-year-old Millville man two weeks ago in Vineland.

John Caccia of the Cape May County Prosecutor's Office fired his Glock 19 service pistol three
times at Jacob Servais
about 3:30 p.m. on Oct. 18.

Jacob Servais  in the parking lot of Just Four Wheels vehicle rentals at 2587 S. Delsea Dr.

Investigators did not say whether Servais had been armed at the time.

T he Attorney General's Shooting Response T eam, which is continuing to investigate the shooting,
reported that detectives with the Cape May County Prosecutor's Office and Lower Township Police
Department were conducting surveillance in the area of the rental business as part of an
investigation of a violent crime that occurred in Cape May County earlier in the month.

T he shooting response team reported that Caccia "encountered" Servais, who was driving a
Nissan Altima and was a possible suspect in the earlier violent crime, and fatally shot him. Officials
did not give details on the earlier crime.

Servais was taken by ambulance to Inspira Medical Center in Vineland, where he was pronounced
dead. None of the detectives were hurt.

"T he nature of any resistance and the use of any weapon on the part of Mr. Servais remain the
subject of the ongoing investigation, and no further information will be released at this time," the
Attorney General's Office said in a statement.

Caccia has been placed on administrative leave.

T his is the second fatal police-involved shooting in Vineland in three months.

In July, Rashaun Washington, 37, of Camden, was shot and killed by Vineland police after a standoff
outside his home. T hat shooting happened after Washington told officers that he was holding an
explosive device wrapped in a shirt, according to body camera footage.

bmoran@phillynews.com

215-854-5983 @RobertMoran215

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Philadelphia Inquirer

 
N.J. man shot by detective is ID'd - Philadelphia Inquirer, The (PA) -
October 20, 2018 - page B02
October 20, 2018 | Philadelphia Inquirer, The (PA) | Melanie Burney STAFF WRITER | Page B02

Authorities have identified a Cumberland County, N.J., man who was killed in a police-involved
shooting Thursday in a parking lot in Vineland.

Jacob Servais , 19, of Millville, was shot around 3:30 p.m. Thursday in the lot of Just Four Wheels
Jacob Servais
Car, T ruck & Van Rental on South Delsea Drive, the state Attorney General's Office said. T he
shooting occurred when detectives from the Cape May County Prosecutor's Office and Lower
T ownship police "encountered" Servais, authorities said in a statement.

Servais was shot by one of the detectives, the statement said. T he detectives were conducting a
law enforcement operation at the scene in Cumberland County, according to the statement.

Servais was transported by ambulance to Inspira Medical Center in Vineland, where he was
pronounced dead, authorities said. None of the detectives was injured.

Few details surrounding the shooting or the nature of the law enforcement activity in the area
were released. Peter Aseltine, a spokesman for Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal, declined to
comment Friday and said no additional information would be released.

T he Cape May County Prosecutor's Office and Lower Township police did not respond to inquiries
seeking comment. T he names of the officers, how many were involved in the shooting, or their
statuses were not released.

T he shooting is under investigation by the Attorney General's Shooting Response Team to
determine if the use of deadly force was justified. Under state guidelines, the case may be
presented to a grand jury for review.

T his is the second fatal police-involved shooting in Vineland in three months.

In July, Rashaun Washington, 37, was shot and killed by Vineland police after a standoff outside his
home. Washington told officers that he was holding an explosive device wrapped in a shirt,
according to body camera footage.

An attorney for Washington's family questioned the police account and called Washington's death
a "senseless killing." T he Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office is investigating and will issue a
report that will be reviewed by the Attorney General's Office.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Philadelphia Inquirer

 
Shot teen's girlfriend was target of surveillance - Press of Atlantic City,
The (NJ) - December 3, 2018 - page 1A
December 3, 2018 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | MOLLY BILINSKI Staff Writer | Page 1A

Hours before a detective from the Cape May County Prosecutor's Office fatally shot a teenager in
Vineland, they notified local authorities that they were monitoring a car rental agency for his
girlfriend.

Jacob Servais
Jacob Servais , 19, of Millville, was shot and killed by Detective John Caccia on Oct. 18 during an
investigation into a violent crime that had occurred in Cape May County, according to a statement
from the Attorney General's Office after the shooting.

Servais was known "as a possible suspect in the investigation," according to the statement.

Detectives notified local authorities just after 9:20 a.m. that they were waiting for a woman to
return a blue Toyota Corolla to Just for Wheels Car, T ruck and Van Rental at 2587 S. Delsea Drive,
according to dispatch recordings released by the Attorney General's Office in response to an Open
Public Records Act request.

T he investigation is ongoing, Peter Aseltine, public onformation officer for the Attorney General's
Office, said in an email T hursday. He said the office is not releasing any additional information at
this time before declining to comment further.

T he dispatch recordings are heavily redacted and do not include the name of the woman the
detectives were surveilling.

"Her boyfriend, who usually is with her, has a warrant for his arrest," one detective said.

Over an hour later, Caccia called dispatch and said he and another detective were in the area and
mentioned the woman they awaited.

"Her boyfriend's an (expletive) too," Caccia said. "He's got vehicular homicide - he's got a bunch of
warrants."

Caccia named Servais when the dispatcher asked for the boyfriend's name.

State Police charged Servais in June with death by auto in an Elk T ownship, Gloucester County,
crash that killed Servais' 17-year-old passenger, according to the Daily Journal of Vineland.

T he crash came after a police chase that started in Franklin T ownship, the Journal reported.

After the October shooting took place about 3:30 p.m. in the parking lot of the rental car agency,
dispatchers received multiple calls for police and emergency medical responders. T here is no body

camera footage of the shooting.

Servais allegedly resisted police and threatened or attacked an officer, or another, with a car
before Caccia shot him three times, according to the use of force report.

Caccia has been placed on administrative leave, Cape May County Prosecutor's Capt. Michael
Emmers said. Caccia's annual salary is $73,518, public records show.

T he Oct. 18 incident was the second time this year a man was fatally shot in Vineland by
authorities.

In July, Vineland police fatally shot Rashaun Washington, of Camden, during a standoff outside a
home. Washington threatened to trigger an explosive device.

Contact: 609-272-7241 Mbilinski@pressofac.comT witter @ACPressMollyB

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 
ATTORNEY GENERAL'S SHOOTING RESPONSE TEAM - US Fed News
(USA) - October 31, 2018
October 31, 2018 | US Fed News (USA)

VINELAND, N.J., Oct. 31 -- T he New Jersey Attorney General issued the following news release:

T he Attorney General's Shooting Response Team (SRT ) is continuing to investigate the fatal,
police-involved shooting of a Cumberland County man at a Vineland auto rental business on
October 18, 2018.

T he shooter has been identified as Detective John Caccia of the Cape May County Prosecutor's
Office, and the service weapon involved was a Glock 19 (9mm).

According to the preliminary investigation, on October 18, 2018, Detective Caccia and other
detectives from the Cape May County Prosecutor's Office and Lower Township Police Department
were conducting surveillance in the vicinity of Just Four Wheels Car, T ruck and Van Rental at 2587
South Delsea Drive, Vineland, as part of an investigation of a violent crime that occurred in Cape
May County earlier in October. During the surveillance operation, Detective Caccia encountered
Jacob Servais
Jacob Servais , 19, of Millville, N.J., who was driving a Nissan Altima and was known to the
Detective as a possible suspect in the investigation. During the encounter, Detective Caccia fired
his service weapon three times, fatally wounding Mr. Servais. Officers from the Cumberland County
Prosecutor's Office and Vineland Police Department responded to the scene, and the investigation
into Mr. Servais's death was immediately turned over to the Attorney General's Shooting Response
T eam.

T he nature of any resistance and the use of any weapon on the part of Mr. Servais remain the
subject of that ongoing investigation, and no further information will be released at this time.

In New Jersey, all investigations of police deadly force incidents are governed by the Attorney
General's Independent Prosecutor Directive, issued in 2006 and strengthened in 2015, which
establishes strict procedures for conducting such investigations. It requires the Attorney General
to review all deadly force investigations, and in some cases conduct them as well. In this case, the
investigation is being conducted directly by the Attorney General's Shooting Response T eam. T he
directive further provides that unless the undisputed facts indicate the use of force was justified
under the law, the circumstances of the incident must ultimately be presented to a grand jury,
composed of 23 civilians, for its independent review.

T he Independent Prosecutor Directive is posted on the Attorney General's website at the following
link:

www.nj.gov/oag/dcj/agguide/directives/2006-5_SRT _OIS.pdf .

Further information about how officer-involved shootings are investigated in New Jersey under the

directive is found at this link:

www.nj.gov/oag/independent-prosecutor/.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
contentservices@htlive.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 US Fed News, via HT Dig ital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved.

 
State AG investigating fatal shooting by detective - South Jersey Times
(NJ) - November 1, 2018 - page 001
November 1, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Matt Gray For South Jersey Times | Page 001

A detective who shot and killed a 19-year-old man in Vineland on Oct. 18 was investigating an
earlier crime at the time and the man he killed was a suspect, the state Attorney General’s Office
revealed Wednesday.

John Caccia, a detective with the Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office, was involved in a
surveillance operation with other detectives when he shot Jacob Servais
lot of vehicle rental business on Delsea Drive in Cumberland County.

Jacob Servais  of Millville, in the parking

Caccia “encountered” Servais, who was driving a Nissan Altima, and fired his Glock 19, a 9mm
handgun, three times, according to the Attorney General’s announcement. Servais was
pronounced dead at a hospital a short time later.

Investigators still have not revealed if Servais was armed or used any weapon during the
encounter. Or provided any information about the crime they were investigating.

“T he nature of any resistance and the use of any weapon

on the part of Mr. Servais remain the subject of that ongoing investigation, and no further
information will be released at this time,” the office stated.

T he detectives involved in the surveillance operation, including officials with the Lower T ownship
Police Department, were investigating a “violent crime” that occurred earlier in October, officials
said, but details of that case were not disclosed.

T he Attorney General’s Shooting Response Team is reviewing the Servais shooting. T hat team will
determine if the shooting was justified and could present the matter to a grand jury.

Caccia was placed on paid administrative leave pending completion of the investigation.

At the time of his death, Servais was under indictment in two counties and facing indictment in a
third. He was also wanted on a bench warrant for skipping a court appearance in Gloucester
County.

He was facing indictment on a vehicular homicide charge in Gloucester County following a June
crash that killed a friend in his vehicle.

Servais was indicted earlier this month on an aggravated assault charge after he allegedly punched
another resident in a juvenile detention facility in Bordentown and broke his jaw.

He was also indicted in Cumberland County earlier this year on a charge of receiving stolen
property. T hat case involved a December 2017 arrest.

Matt Gray, NJ Advance Media, mgray@njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 


Coroner: Driver killed by Rock Falls police shot - Sauk Valley
Newspapers (Dixon-Sterling, IL) - January 31, 2018
January 31, 2018 | Sauk Valley Newspapers (Dixon-Sterling, IL) | KATHLEEN A. SCHULTZ
kschultz@saukvalley.com 815-625-3600, ext. 5535 @KathleenSchul10

ROCK FALLS – T he driver killed in Friday's traffic stop was shot "several times in the back,"
Whiteside County Coroner Joe McDonald said.

McDonald was responding to an email from Sauk Valley Media asking how many times and where
Nathaniel T . "Nate" Edwards, 43, was shot.

"T o protect the integrity of the case and the ongoing investigation, which is in fact an active case, I
will state that the deceased suffered multiple gunshot wounds from the back and died from those
wounds," McDonald's responded in an email that arrived after deadline Monday.

"T oxicology and many other samples were taken during the examination and will be sent for
analysis," the email said. Such tests typically take from 2 to 8 weeks to process.

McDonald's initial news release Monday said only: "T he autopsy was completed today on the
death of Nathaniel Edwards
into the events continues, as well as lab testing and toxicology results."

N athaniel Edwards ; preliminary cause of death – gunshot wound. Further investigation

Police have said Edwards was reversing his car "into the path" of the officer who shot him – and
who therefore would have been behind the vehicle at the time, which explains why Edwards was
shot in the back.

In a news release T uesday, Lt. Chris Endress of the ISP Integrity T ask Force, who is overseeing the
investigation, said dash-cam footage from a Rock Falls and a Whiteside County squad car on scene
at the time, and a deputy's squad car that arrived moments after the shooting, would not be made
public until the investigation and criminal proceedings, if any, are over.

"All the audio video recordings collected are items of evidence in an ongoing investigation, and as
such will not be available to the public until the state's attorney completes his review and findings,"
the release said.

T hat decision is in compliance with the Illinois Police and Community Relations Improvement Act,
which also requires the release of the report "if the state's attorney, or a designated special
prosecutor, determines there is no basis to prosecute the law enforcement officer involved ... or if
the law enforcement officer is not otherwise charged or indicted."

Endress' release was sent in response to several Freedom of Information Act requests for
dashboard and body camera footage. Neither the county nor Rock Falls PD wear body cameras,
he noted, and a second RFPD squad car on scene was not equipped with any recording equipment.

According to investigators, Rock Falls police attempted to pull Edwards over that night for an as-
yet unspecified reason. He did not immediately comply, was pursued, and eventually pulled into the
driveway at 1304 Franklin St., where family members said he was attending a party.

He did not respond to officers' verbal commands, and instead put the car in reverse and
accelerated toward the Rock Falls officer, who then shot him, investigators said.

Rock Falls officers and Whiteside County sheriff's deputies performed CPR and used an automated
external defibrillator until emergency medical personnel arrived; but Edwards was pronounced dead
in the CGH Medical Center Emergency Department at 8:48 p.m.

Edwards, who is black, was the sole occupant of the white Cadillac.

T he officer, a 10-year veteran of the force, who is white, has not been identified. He was training a
new hire that night, Endress said, and as is protocol, is on paid administrative leave while the
investigation progresses.

Investigators have not said what prompted the traffic stop.

Edwards has several felony convictions for driving on a revoked license, and in fact was doing so
that night, and a family member has said the plates on his white Cadillac did not belong to the car.

His most recent charge of driving on a revoked license was levied on Oct. 30 and was in the
process of being adjudicated in Whiteside County Court.​

ABOUT  T HE ACT

Go to shawurl.com/380n to read the full text of the 50 ILCS 727, the Illinois Police and Community
Relations Improvement Act.

Copyrig ht 2018, Sauk Valley Newspapers (Dixon-Sterling , IL). All Rights Reserved.

 
Prosecutor: Officer acted in self-defense in fatal - Associated Press State
Wire: Illinois (IL) - June 29, 2018
June 29, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

ROCK FALLS, Ill. (AP) — A prosecutor has determined that a northern Illinois police officer acted in
self-defense in the fatal shooting of a 43-year-old motorist during a traffic stop.

Sauk Valley Media reports that Rock Falls officer Jonathan Cater will not be charged in the case.

Police have said Nathaniel Edwards
pursuit in January and instead put the vehicle in reverse and accelerated toward the officer.

N athaniel Edwards  did not respond to commands to get out of a car following a

Edwards, of Sterling, was shot several times in the back.

Whiteside County State's Attorney Terry Costello said in a release Friday that Cater "reasonably
believed" that his life and the life of a fellow officer were in danger.

Edwards' mother has filed a lawsuit against Rock Falls and the officer.

Rock Falls is about 115 miles (185 kilometers) west of Chicago.

___

Online: http://www.saukvalley.com/2018/06/29/rock-falls-officer-wont-be-charged-in-drivers-
shooting-death/a5sky9l/

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Rock Falls officer won't be charged in driver's - Sauk Valley
Newspapers (Dixon-Sterling, IL) - June 29, 2018
June 29, 2018 | Sauk Valley Newspapers (Dixon-Sterling, IL) | KATHLEEN A. SCHULTZ kschultz@saukvalley.com
815-625-3600, ext. 5535 @KathleenSchul10

MORRISON – T he Rock Falls police officer who shot and killed a driver as he was backing toward
him fired in self-defense and will not be charged with a crime, Whiteside County State's Attorney
T erry Costello said Friday in a news release.

According to the release, and previous stories:

Nathaniel T . "Nate" Edwards, 43, of Sterling, was shot five times in the back and killed around 7:45
p.m. Jan. 26 in the driveway of 1304 Franklin St., where he had been attending a party, after a slow-
speed police pursuit involving two Rock Falls and one Whiteside County Sheriff's squad car.

T he incident began when officer Dustin Sugars spotted Edwards on Dixon Avenue weaving and
speeding 41 mph in a 30-mph zone.

Edwards ignored police emergency lights and not only refused to stop his car, but also twice drove
through a ditch and around squad cars attempting to block his path.

When he did pull into the driveway, he did not respond to commands, and ignored Sugars' warning,
made with gun drawn and in an attempt to get him to exit the car, that "you're going to get shot."

Edwards replied "Kill me," followed by expletives, and laid his head against the window where the
gun was pointing.

T hen, after being told "do not back up," he revved the engine, put the white Cadillac in reverse and
accelerated toward Rock Falls Sgt. Jonathan Cater, who had joined the chase, and was standing
behind the car on the passenger side, gun drawn.

Officer Ethan Riley, whom Cater was training that night, also was behind the car, on the driver's
side, gun drawn.

Cater moved out of the way and fired six shots into the back window, five of which hit Edwards –
who still managed to put the car in park – and four of which were fatal. Edwards was pronounced
dead at 8:48 p.m. at CGH Medical Center.

Riley, who also had to move out of the car's path, told investigators he considered shooting into
the car, as well, but Sugars was in his way.

T he pursuit was captured on two dashboard cameras; the shooting happened out of range of the
cameras. Two other nearby squad cars were not equipped with dash-cams.

T oxicology results showed Edwards, who had a long history of drug- and alcohol-related traffic
offenses, was drunk and high on marijuana at the time; his BAC was .189, more than double the
legal limit to drive.

Cater "reasonably believed" that his life and Riley's life were in danger, Costello concluded after
considering the results of the State Police investigation.

"Having reviewed the evidence submitted and the law, Officer Cater's actions in discharging his
weapon, resulting in the death of Nathaniel T . Edwards
the 11-page release, sent around 12:30 Friday afternoon.

N athaniel T . Edwards , is valid as self-defense," Costello said in

"Considering the totality of the circumstances Officer Cater faced, he reasonably believed that his
and Officer Riley's lives were in danger. T he Whiteside County State's Attorney's Office will not be
pursuing any charges against Rock Falls Police officer Jonathan Cater as a result of this incident."

Edwards' mother, Alfredia Edwards of Chicago, is suing the city, the department and Cater in
federal court, claiming the the officer's "wrongful use of deadly force" violated her son's civil rights.

T he suit claims the shooting was "intentional willful and wanton," "unprovoked," "unjustified,"
"excessive and unreasonable," and that the use of deadly force violated Edwards' Fourth and 14th
Amendment rights.

T he Fourth Amendment protects citizens against unreasonable search and seizure. T he 14th
provides equal protection under the law for all citizens; it has been interpreted to mean regardless
of race, sex, religion, etc.

Cater, a 10-year veteran of the force, is white; Edwards was black.

Cater was put on administrative leave and returned to his job on March 26, the same day the ISP
turned over its findings to Costello.

In addition to statements from neighborhood witnesses, and from Cater, Riley, Sugars and the two
Whiteside County deputies on scene, the ISP report also included the autopsy report, including the
toxicology test results and and a laboratory analysis of Cater's service weapon.

Neither Cater nor any of the other officers involved – Riley, Sugars, and deputies Sean Coutts and
Rollie Elder – were publicly identified until today's release.

Copyrig ht 2018, Sauk Valley Newspapers (Dixon-Sterling , IL). All Rights Reserved.

 
Mother of motorist shot by Rock Falls police sues - Associated Press
State Wire: Illinois (IL) - February 1, 2018
February 1, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

ROCKFORD, Ill. (AP) — T he mother of a driver shot to death during a traffic stop has filed a lawsuit
against the city of Rock Falls and a police officer.

N athaniel Edwards  of Sterling was shot several times in the back and killed Friday in the driveway
N athaniel Edwards
of a Rock Falls home after a police pursuit.

Sauk Valley Media reports in a lawsuit filed Tuesday in federal court in Rockford, Alfredia Edwards
of Chicago claims the shooting was "unjustified," ''excessive and unreasonable."

Investigators say the 43-year-old Edwards at first refused to stop the vehicle, then when he did
stop, did not respond to verbal commands to get out. Authorities say he put the car in reverse and
accelerated toward the officer who shot him several times.

T he lawsuit seeks more than $1 million in damages, and requests a jury trial. Rock Falls city
attorney James L. Reese has not commented on the lawsuit.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

Family pursues answers in death of theft suspect - Buffalo News, The
(NY) - January 14, 2019 - page 1
January 14, 2019 | Buffalo News, The (NY) | By Aaron Besecker News Staff Reporter | Article | Page 1

M arcus Neal came back to Western New York last fall and was reconnecting with old friends in
M arcus N eal
the place where he grew up.

T hree months later, the 47-year-old was dead, killed by three bullets from a Buffalo police officer’s
gun.

Police have told Neal’s family he was seen shoplifting “small personal items” from Wegmans on
Amherst Street late on Dec. 12. About 20 minutes later and roughly a mile away, following a
pursuit by police, he was shot on the roof of a garage in Black Rock.

He died the next day.

His family has hired a law firm to investigate his death, according to his father, Charles B. Neal III.

“From what they said the violation was, such a minor violation, I think that they created a scenario
that was unnecessary,” Neal said of police. “T otally unnecessary.”

According to the police department’s account of what happened – which Neal’s family members
note has not been accompanied by the disclosure of any corroborating evidence – he was
identified as a shoplifting suspect at the supermarket. An on-duty police officer who was at the
store was flagged down by employees and then put a description out over the police radio. A man
said to match that description was seen nearby on Grote Street. Officers pursued him, and he
eventually made it onto the roof of a four-car garage on Gladstone Street.

Police said Neal had a knife and began cutting himself. At some point, they used pepper spray on
him. According to police, he charged at them with the knife. T hat’s when Officer Joseph Meli shot
him twice in the abdomen and once in the leg. It took Buffalo firefighters about 15 minutes to get
Neal down from the roof after the call of “shots fired” went out over police radio and before he
was put in an ambulance.

T he Police Department says the officer had no choice but to shoot Neal because he was armed
and charged at officers. Neal’s death remains under investigation by the Erie County District
Attorney’s Office and the Buffalo Police Department, according to spokesmen for each office.

M arcus Neal was born in Washington, D.C., but grew up in the Niagara Falls area, his father said.
M arcus N eal
He attended schools in the Falls and in the Niagara Wheatfield School District before he moved
away in his 20s.

He had been back in the area since September. He had been living in Roanoke, Va., helping to take

care of his mother, and was most recently in Florida, where his father lives, for several months.

While living in Florida, Marcus wasn’t able to find any real full-time work and picked up some jobs off
Craigslist, according to his father.

T he original purpose for coming back to New York was for a court date to settle an outstanding
traffic ticket near Rochester. His ultimate goal was to regain his driver’s license, which he had done,
his father said.

Marcus had found a small place to live on T onawanda Street. He has relatives in the Falls area,
including a stepbrother, an uncle and a grandmother.

He also has a son who lives across the border in Hamilton, Ont.

“Marcus was there in Buffalo to try to accomplish some personal things, to reconnect, to spend
more time with his son,” Charles Neal said.

Several of Marcus’ friends from Western New York made the trek to Virginia for a memorial
service on Dec. 22, he said.

During the years he lived in Roanoke, he had multiple run-ins with police, with a criminal history
dating back to 1998 in Virginia, according to public records.

Neal’s convictions included petit larceny, burglary and resisting arrest, according to records from
the Roanoke City General District Court and the Roanoke City Circuit Court. He was acquitted of a
charge of assault on a law enforcement officer in January 2011, according to court records.

James Bible, an attorney in the Seattle area, was Marcus N eal
represents families in wrongful death cases involving alleged police misconduct.

M arcus Neal’s uncle by marriage. He also

Now, the type of situation the lawyer helps other people with has hit home.

“Anytime something like this happens, it’s important to recognize that human life is lost,” he said.
“Marcus has a family. Marcus was loved dearly.”

Bible knows Marcus N eal
M arcus Neal’s 95-year-old grandfather, who gets down on his knees and prays every
night before bed. When his grandfather learned of Neal’s death, he shook and cried uncontrollably,
Bible said.

Marcus’ death also shook his aunt, Bible’s wife, “to her very core.”

“Because they know how special he was to all of them,” Bible said.

“And anytime something happens like this in a community where law enforcement – somebody
that is paid for with our taxes – actually takes somebody else’s life, the entire community should
take pause,” he said, “and we should all figure out how we can do better, as opposed to simply
being in a space where we say all those other things about a person prior to the investigation,

which often happens with law enforcement.”

Copyrig ht (c) 2019 The Buffalo News

 
Buffalo officer won’t be charged in fatal - Buffalo News, The (NY) - March
15, 2019 - page 1
March 15, 2019 | Buffalo News, The (NY) | By Aaron Besecker and Phil Fairbanks News Staff Reporters | Article
| Page 1

Prosecutors say Buffalo Police Officer Joseph Meli acted out of self-defense when he shot and
killed a shoplifting suspect last year.

T hey also believe Marcus N eal
lunged at Meli during their rooftop confrontation in Black Rock.

M arcus N eal, the man who died, was armed with a knife and at one point

“He was either going to get stabbed or fall off the roof,” Erie County District Attorney John J. Flynn
said T hursday. “At the end of the day, this was a justifiable shooting by Officer Meli.”

Flynn’s decision not to press charges against the second-year officer came just days after Neal’s
family filed court papers indicating they plan to sue the city and seek monetary damages.

In their notice of claim, Neal’s father and son questioned police accounts of what happened that
night in December, including the presence of a knife.

“We have another black man killed by police under what appear to be suspicious circumstances,”
Donald M. T hompson, one of the lawyers representing the family, said T hursday.

T hompson said the family will look at the evidence gathered by Flynn’s office before filing a formal
lawsuit against the city.

With Thompson sitting in the same room, Flynn outlined for reporters what led to his conclusion
that the shooting on Gladstone Street was reasonable and necessary.

First and foremost, he pointed to Neal’s actions on the roof, including that moment when he
allegedly reached into his backpack and pulled out a 3½-inch folding knife.

Flynn said Neal began cutting his own arm with the knife and told officers they were going to have
to shoot him.

At that point, officers pepper-sprayed Neal, who responded by wiping his face with snow.

“Now, he starts walking toward the officers, knife in hand,” Flynn said.

At that point, Neal lunged at Meli and the officer responded by shooting Neal twice in the right side
and once in the buttocks, Flynn said. He noted that Neal continued to fight officers, even after
being shot three times.

When asked if Neal was seeking what police call “suicide by cop,” Flynn said he didn’t know but
suggested it was possible.

Either way, he said, the shooting was necessary.

“In this case, they were 100 percent right and 100 percent justified,” the county’s chief prosecutor
said of the officers on the roof that night.

Flynn said Meli repeatedly asked Neal to drop the knife and made it clear he didn’t want to shoot
him. He said the officers also waited until Neal grabbed the knife to draw their guns.

Without getting into detail, the district attorney also confirmed that a toxicology report found
controlled substances in Neal’s body. He declined to specify what drugs.

Flynn said Neal was taken to Erie County Medical Center immediately after the shooting and died
about eight hours later.

In clearing Meli of any wrongdoing, he acknowledged the presence of only one civilian witness and
his office’s reliance on police accounts of what happened that night.

“I have no reason to believe the police are not telling the truth,” he said.

Flynn said the civilian witness was also instrumental in backing up police accounts of what
happened that night, including their pursuit of Neal through backyards. He said the witness also
confirmed the absence of drawn guns during the chase.

“As far as I’m concerned, he’s free and clear,” Flynn said of Meli.

Meli was left with no other option than to shoot Neal, given the circumstances, said Thomas J.
Burton, an attorney for the Buffalo Police Benevolent Association.

“When this officer fired, he had run out of every option,” Burton said. “He was at least 10 feet
above the ground on a roof that was icy and slippery with somebody backing him away with a
knife, and when he finally fired he was less than a meter away from the guy.”

Neal’s family this week indicated it plans to sue the city and, in court papers, alleged that Meli acted
without provocation.

T he family also questioned the existence of a knife and suggested there is no evidence that police
had probable cause to believe Neal was the Wegmans shoplifter.

“I have been skeptical of that,” Thompson said of the reports of a knife. “T hey contend that a knife
was recovered. We haven’t seen the knife, and we haven’t seen pictures of the knife.”

T he officer-involved shooting in Black Rock was Buffalo’s third in a five-month period.

Neal grew up in the Niagara Falls area and had moved back to Western New York about three

months before he was killed.

Copyrig ht (c) 2019 The Buffalo News

 
Witnesses included one civilian - Buffalo News, The (NY) - March 15, 2019
- page 7
March 15, 2019 | Buffalo News, The (NY) | By Aaron Besecker and Phil Fairbanks News Staff Reporters | Article
| Page 7

Prosecutors say Buffalo Police Officer Joseph Meli acted out of self-defense when he shot and
killed a shoplifting suspect last year.

T hey also believe Marcus N eal
lunged at Meli during their rooftop confrontation in Black Rock.

M arcus N eal, the man who died, was armed with a knife and at one point

“He was either going to get stabbed or fall off the roof,” Erie County District Attorney John J. Flynn
said T hursday. “At the end of the day, this was a justifiable shooting by Officer Meli.”

Flynn’s decision not to press charges against the second-year officer came just days after Neal’s
family filed court papers indicating they plan to sue the city and seek monetary damages.

In their notice of claim, Neal’s father and son questioned police accounts of what happened that
night in December, including the presence of a knife.

“We have another black man killed by police under what appear to be suspicious circumstances,”
Donald M. T hompson, one of the lawyers representing the family, said T hursday.

T hompson said the family will look at the evidence gathered by Flynn’s office before filing a formal
lawsuit against the city.

With Thompson sitting in the same room, Flynn outlined for reporters what led to his conclusion
that the shooting on Gladstone Street was reasonable and necessary.

First and foremost, he pointed to Neal’s actions on the roof, including that moment when he
allegedly reached into his backpack and pulled out a 3½-inch folding knife.

Flynn said Neal began cutting his own arm with the knife and told officers they were going to have
to shoot him.

At that point, officers pepper-sprayed Neal, who responded by wiping his face with snow.

“Now, he starts walking toward the officers, knife in hand,” Flynn said.

At that point, Neal lunged at Meli and the officer responded by shooting Neal twice in the right side
and once in the buttocks, Flynn said. He noted that Neal continued to fight officers, even after
being shot three times.

When asked if Neal was seeking what police call “suicide by cop,” Flynn said he didn’t know but
suggested it was possible.

Either way, he said, the shooting was necessary.

“In this case, they were 100 percent right and 100 percent justified,” the county’s chief prosecutor
said of the officers on the roof that night.

Flynn said Meli repeatedly asked Neal to drop the knife and made it clear he didn’t want to shoot
him. He said the officers also waited until Neal grabbed the knife to draw their guns.

Without getting into detail, the district attorney also confirmed that a toxicology report found
controlled substances in Neal’s body. He declined to specify what drugs.

Flynn said Neal was taken to Erie County Medical Center immediately after the shooting and died
about eight hours later.

In clearing Meli of any wrongdoing, he acknowledged the presence of only one civilian witness and
his office’s reliance on police accounts of what happened that night.

“I have no reason to believe the police are not telling the truth,” he said.

Flynn said the civilian witness was also instrumental in backing up police accounts of what
happened that night, including their pursuit of Neal through backyards. He said the witness also
confirmed the absence of drawn guns during the chase.

“As far as I’m concerned, he’s free and clear,” Flynn said of Meli.

Meli was left with no other option than to shoot Neal, given the circumstances, said Thomas J.
Burton, an attorney for the Buffalo Police Benevolent Association.

“When this officer fired, he had run out of every option,” Burton said. “He was at least 10 feet
above the ground on a roof that was icy and slippery with somebody backing him away with a
knife, and when he finally fired he was less than a meter away from the guy.”

Neal’s family this week indicated it plans to sue the city and, in court papers, alleged that Meli acted
without provocation.

T he family also questioned the existence of a knife and suggested there is no evidence that police
had probable cause to believe Neal was the Wegmans shoplifter.

“I have been skeptical of that,” Thompson said of the reports of a knife. “T hey contend that a knife
was recovered. We haven’t seen the knife, and we haven’t seen pictures of the knife.”

T he officer-involved shooting in Black Rock was Buffalo’s third in a five-month period.

Neal grew up in the Niagara Falls area and had moved back to Western New York about three

months before he was killed.

Copyrig ht (c) 2019 The Buffalo News

 
Buffalo police defend fatal shooting of - Buffalo News, The (NY) -
December 13, 2018 - page 1
December 13, 2018 | Buffalo News, The (NY) | By Aaron Besecker News Staff Reporter | Article | Page 1

It began with a shoplifting call at Wegmans.

It ended about a mile away with a suicidal suspect fatally shot by a Buffalo police officer on the
roof of a four-car garage, according to police.

T uesday night’s officer-involved shooting — Buffalo’s third in five months — was defended
Wednesday by a police department commander who said the officer had no choice but to shoot
the knife-wielding suspect because he had charged at officers, even after he had been pepper-
sprayed.

Wednesday evening, police identified the dead suspect as Marcus N eal
Joseph Meli, 25, fired the shots, police spokesman Michael J. DeGeorge said.

M arcus N eal, 47, of Buffalo. Officer

“T here’s never any way to predict how any call for service — whether it’s a traffic stop, it’s a
domestic, it’s a barking dog call — can turn out. It’s unfortunate,” said Buffalo Police Capt. Jeff
Rinaldo at a Wednesday afternoon news conference.

“I can tell you that no officer wants to find themselves in a life and death situation with a suspect
and having to discharge their firearm, but unfortunately, a lot of times — most times — it’s the
suspect that determines the conclusion of these events, not the police officers who are there
doing their job.”

Neal died Wednesday morning at Erie County Medical Center after undergoing surgery. He was
shot twice in the abdomen and once in the leg by Meli, one of the three officers who confronted
him on the roof, Rinaldo said. T he man had recently moved to Buffalo from out of state.

T he shooting prompted questions Wednesday about whether Buffalo police should have used
T asers to subdue the suspect instead of deadly physical force. In February, the New York State
Attorney General’s Office recommended Buffalo police equip officers with Tasers after it
investigated a Buffalo police officer’s shooting of an unarmed suspect in 2017 in Black Rock.

Rinaldo said that the police department plans to begin arming some officers with Tasers as part of
a citywide pilot project, starting as soon as a month from now.

But he said he believes it would not have been appropriate for officers to use a Taser in this case
because the suspect was armed with a knife and was threatening the officers with deadly physical
force.

“You match force with force,” he said.

None of the officers involved in Tuesday night’s shooting were wearing body cameras. But the
department expects to begin deploying body cams to all officers across the city starting next
month, Rinaldo said.

T he Erie County District Attorney’s Office will investigate whether Tuesday’s shooting was justified,
a spokeswoman said. T he state Attorney General’s Office, which has jurisdiction over police-
involved shooting cases where the person who was shot was unarmed, has also been contacted
about the matter, Rinaldo said.

A spokesperson for the attorney general indicated that office is unlikely to investigate T uesday’s
shooting. T he Exec. Order only applies to cases involving the death of an unarmed civilian,” the
spokesperson said.

On T uesday, when security at Wegmans on Amherst Street called 911 at about 11:20 p.m. about a
shoplifter, an on-duty police lieutenant was just pulling into the store’s parking lot, police said.

A man who matched the description provided by store security was seen heading down Grote
Street on foot. A short time later, police saw him come out of a yard in the area and start to run.

About 20 minutes after the lieutenant got to the store, an officer reported the suspect was on a
roof near Sayre Street, according to an audio recording of police radio transmissions on
broadcastify.com.

“He’s got a knife,” an officer reported moments later.

“Radio, he’s cutting himself now,” another officer reported, then asking a dispatcher to call for an
ambulance and firefighters.

“Radio, he’s running at officers with a knife,” an officer reports about a minute later.

About 15 seconds later, an officer reports, “Shots fired. Shots fired.”

T hree officers were on the flat roof of the one-story garage behind 50 Gladstone St. with Neal,
who had climbed up a pool deck attached to the garage, according to police.

T he officers gave the suspect verbal commands to stop and to get on the ground, then he turned
around with a knife, Rinaldo said.. He began threatening the officers with the weapon, wounding
himself with the knife and making suicidal statements to the officers, Rinaldo said.

When the commands didn’t work, the officers tried using pepper spray, “which had no effect,” he
said.

Meli fired three times. All the bullets appeared to have entered his body from the front, Rinaldo
said.

“It doesn’t matter what the predicate offense is, once you pull a weapon and begin to threaten the

officers, the officers had no room to attempt to retreat. T hey did an excellent job trying to de-
escalate this,” he said.

“And unfortunately, the officers were faced with a situation where a suspect is charging at them
with a knife in his hand stating that they’re going to have to shoot him.

“And it was either fire and stop the threat or possibly fall off the back of this roof with a suspect
who’s armed with a knife falling on top of you. So, I think the officers did an excellent job given the
circumstances and it’s an unfortunate situation.”

T uesday night’s shooting was the third by a Buffalo police officer in about five months.

• Jeremiah D. Smith, 36, was shot July 20 following a standoff with police outside a home at
McKinley Parkway and Como Avenue in South Buffalo. He survived.

• On Sept. 12, Rafael Rivera, 32, was fatally shot by an officer during a foot chase on Plymouth
Avenue, after police responded to a call of a man with a gun. T his month, Erie County District
Attorney John J. Flynn said the officer would not face criminal charges.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Buffalo News

 
Officers were not wearing body cameras - Buffalo News, The (NY) -
December 13, 2018 - page 11
December 13, 2018 | Buffalo News, The (NY) | By Aaron Besecker News Staff Reporter | Article | Page 11

It began with a shoplifting call at Wegmans.

It ended about a mile away with a suicidal suspect fatally shot by a Buffalo police officer on the
roof of a four-car garage, according to police.

T uesday night’s officer-involved shooting — Buffalo’s third in five months — was defended
Wednesday by a police department commander who said the officer had no choice but to shoot
the knife-wielding suspect because he had charged at officers, even after he had been pepper-
sprayed.

Wednesday evening, police identified the dead suspect as Marcus N eal
Joseph Meli, 25, fired the shots, police spokesman Michael J. DeGeorge said.

M arcus N eal, 47, of Buffalo. Officer

“T here’s never any way to predict how any call for service — whether it’s a traffic stop, it’s a
domestic, it’s a barking dog call — can turn out. It’s unfortunate,” said Buffalo Police Capt. Jeff
Rinaldo at a Wednesday afternoon news conference.

“I can tell you that no officer wants to find themselves in a life and death situation with a suspect
and having to discharge their firearm, but unfortunately, a lot of times — most times — it’s the
suspect that determines the conclusion of these events, not the police officers who are there
doing their job.”

Neal died Wednesday morning at Erie County Medical Center after undergoing surgery. He was
shot twice in the abdomen and once in the leg by Meli, one of the three officers who confronted
him on the roof, Rinaldo said. T he man had recently moved to Buffalo from out of state.

T he shooting prompted questions Wednesday about whether Buffalo police should have used
T asers to subdue the suspect instead of deadly physical force. In February, the New York State
Attorney General’s Office recommended Buffalo police equip officers with Tasers after it
investigated a Buffalo police officer’s shooting of an unarmed suspect in 2017 in Black Rock.

Rinaldo said that the police department plans to begin arming some officers with Tasers as part of
a citywide pilot project, starting as soon as a month from now.

But he said he believes it would not have been appropriate for officers to use a Taser in this case
because the suspect was armed with a knife and was threatening the officers with deadly physical
force.

“You match force with force,” he said.

None of the officers involved in Tuesday night’s shooting were wearing body cameras. But the
department expects to begin deploying body cams to all officers across the city starting next
month, Rinaldo said.

T he Erie County District Attorney’s Office will investigate whether Tuesday’s shooting was justified,
a spokeswoman said. T he state Attorney General’s Office, which has jurisdiction over police-
involved shooting cases where the person who was shot was unarmed, has also been contacted
about the matter, Rinaldo said.

A spokesperson for the attorney general indicated that office is unlikely to investigate T uesday’s
shooting. T he Exec. Order only applies to cases involving the death of an unarmed civilian,” the
spokesperson said.

On T uesday, when security at Wegmans on Amherst Street called 911 at about 11:20 p.m. about a
shoplifter, an on-duty police lieutenant was just pulling into the store’s parking lot, police said.

A man who matched the description provided by store security was seen heading down Grote
Street on foot. A short time later, police saw him come out of a yard in the area and start to run.

About 20 minutes after the lieutenant got to the store, an officer reported the suspect was on a
roof near Sayre Street, according to an audio recording of police radio transmissions on
broadcastify.com.

“He’s got a knife,” an officer reported moments later.

“Radio, he’s cutting himself now,” another officer reported, then asking a dispatcher to call for an
ambulance and firefighters.

“Radio, he’s running at officers with a knife,” an officer reports about a minute later.

About 15 seconds later, an officer reports, “Shots fired. Shots fired.”

T hree officers were on the flat roof of the one-story garage behind 50 Gladstone St. with Neal,
who had climbed up a pool deck attached to the garage, according to police.

T he officers gave the suspect verbal commands to stop and to get on the ground, then he turned
around with a knife, Rinaldo said.. He began threatening the officers with the weapon, wounding
himself with the knife and making suicidal statements to the officers, Rinaldo said.

When the commands didn’t work, the officers tried using pepper spray, “which had no effect,” he
said.

Meli fired three times. All the bullets appeared to have entered his body from the front, Rinaldo
said.

“It doesn’t matter what the predicate offense is, once you pull a weapon and begin to threaten the

officers, the officers had no room to attempt to retreat. T hey did an excellent job trying to de-
escalate this,” he said.

“And unfortunately, the officers were faced with a situation where a suspect is charging at them
with a knife in his hand stating that they’re going to have to shoot him.

“And it was either fire and stop the threat or possibly fall off the back of this roof with a suspect
who’s armed with a knife falling on top of you. So, I think the officers did an excellent job given the
circumstances and it’s an unfortunate situation.”

T uesday night’s shooting was the third by a Buffalo police officer in about five months.

• Jeremiah D. Smith, 36, was shot July 20 following a standoff with police outside a home at
McKinley Parkway and Como Avenue in South Buffalo. He survived.

• On Sept. 12, Rafael Rivera, 32, was fatally shot by an officer during a foot chase on Plymouth
Avenue, after police responded to a call of a man with a gun. T his month, Erie County District
Attorney John J. Flynn said the officer would not face criminal charges.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Buffalo News

 

State police wrap up police-involved shooting - Danville Register & Bee
(VA) - June 7, 2018
June 7, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | ​John Crane

T he Virginia State Police has completed its part of the investigation into the officer-involved fatal
shooting of an unarmed Juan Markee Jones

Juan Markee Jones  early April in Danville.

Danville Commonwealth's Attorney Michael Newman said he received the report late Tuesday and
will determine whether the use of lethal force by police was legally justified.

"I was provided three volumes of documents, videos, reports," Newman said via email T hursday.
"It will take some time to review it all."

He said he hopes to finish his review by the end of the month and has not decided whether he will
create a full report of his own.

Corinne Geller, public relations director with the Virginia State Police, would not provide a copy of
the report to the Danville Register & Bee, citing an exemption under the Freedom of Information
Act that offers law enforcement agencies discretion when it comes to certain investigative
material.

"Criminal investigative files, and their contents, are excluded from the provisions of FOIA," Geller
said via email T hursday.

She said it was up to the commonwealth's attorney whether to release the report on Jones's
shooting.

"I try not to release information or reports on ongoing investigations before charging decisions
are made," Newman said. "T hat is to protect all involved. If charges were sought, I wouldn't want
released information/reports to taint a person's right to a fair trial."

Police shot an unarmed Jones, 25, shortly after 1 a.m. April 8 at a wooded area along Sunset Drive
following a call from a woman complaining of a domestic assault at a North Main Street business.
Police body-camera video shows officers firing at Jones as he abruptly whirls toward them with
arms outstretched by his chest.

T he officers identified by the department as firing the shots are Chistopher S. Simpkins, with five
years on the force, and David J. Branch, with two years on the force. Both officers will remain on
administrative leave until the investigation is completed.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 
Officers named in Danville shooting - Daily Progress, The
(Charlottesville, VA) - April 12, 2018
April 12, 2018 | Daily Progress, The (Charlottesville, VA) | From staff and wire reports

DANVILLE—T wo Danville police officers shot at Juan Markee Jones
around with his arms outstretched following a tense confrontation early Sunday — one officer with
two years on the force and the other with five years.

Juan Markee Jones  when he suddenly whipped

Officer Christopher S. Simpkins began working for the department on Dec. 1, 2012, and Officer
David J. Branch began on March 1, 2016. Neither have served with other departments.

Both officers will remain on administrative leave until the investigation is completed.

Jones, a 25-year-old black man from Danville, was shot twice in the chest, Dr. Sara Ohanessian,
with the Roanoke Medical Examiner's Office, confirmed to T he Associated Press. She said that her
office was conducting a toxicology report that is not yet completed.

It is not known if both officers shot Jones.

© Copyrig ht 2018, The Daily Prog ress, Charlottesville, VA

 
Danville police chief issues statement over - Danville Register & Bee
(VA) - April 9, 2018
April 9, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | Staff Writer

Danville Police Chief Scott Booth has released a statement regarding the fatal officer-involved
shooting from early Sunday.

"No Police officer wants to use deadly force nor do they want to use any form of force that could
result in serious injury," Booth said Monday. "When death or serious injury happens, we deeply
regret the loss of life or injury and we feel compassion for them, their family and their friends."

Juan Markee Jones
Juan Markee Jones , 25, of Danville died shortly after officers report responding to a domestic
assault complaint in a parking lot of the 2300 block of North Main Street. Officers say the suspect
led them to a wooded area on Sunset Drive.

It was there, police report, that Jones "suddenly turned on the officers in a threatening manner."

Booth also urged the community not to rush to judgement or listen to rumors concerning the
shooting on Sunset Drive, though he did not specify what those rumors are.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 
Video, narrative leaves extended family with - Danville Register & Bee
(VA) - April 10, 2018
April 10, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | Ceillie Simkiss

Juan Markee Jones  died in a police altercation early Sunday morning.
Juan Markee Jones

T wo days later, protests have taken place at the SOVAH Health-Danville hospital and on the steps
to the Municipal Building, asking for the truth and justice.

T he hospital protest took place after Jones died inside Sunday. Pittsylvania County Sheriff's Office
deputies were called in to help with crowd control, authorities confirmed.

Both protests were peaceful and no arrests were made.

Family members and friends gathered on the lawn and in the living room of the family's Fuller
Street home Tuesday afternoon.

All were talking about the incident that took Jones' life, and the person they'd known for years.
Inside the home, a young niece and nephew watched the cartoon "Steven Universe" on the living
room television.

Jones' mother and two of his cousins said they had viewed the body-camera footage of the
incident twice, but did not wish to speak to the media yet. T hey did not give their full names.

"He was really respectful," family friend Swanya T rotter said. "He really was. My son got killed a
year ago. He's always been there for us. I cannot believe this."

She said her son, Quahoun T rotter, was shot and killed in a homicide in Greensboro, North
Carolina, on April 27, 2017.

T wo terms used to describe Jones were brought up by every family member willing to talk to the
Register & Bee — his helpfulness, and his respectfulness.

"He wasn't a nasty person," cousin Kevin Myers said. "If you needed anything, he would help you. If
you needed a ride, he'd give you one. T hat's my cousin. He was a loving person."

Danville Mayor John Gilstrap and Vice Mayor Alonzo Jones stopped by the family home Tuesday to
speak with them and offer any support they could give.

"We're just here to support the family," Alonzo Jones said. "As a community, we have to come
together."

From the white, floral condolences book by the front door, dozens of other people have come by

to offer their support to the family.

T hose condolences haven't answered the family's questions, though.

Why did someone call the police saying he was armed and dangerous? Why did police have to
shoot him at all? Why couldn't they have waited him out?

Police use of lethal force has been seen throughout the country, particularly when it comes to
young black men.

"How many people have to die?" local activist Azriel LeBeau asked. "Whose brother, whose sister,
whose father, whose son's have to die before we stand up and do something? It's enough. We in
Danville need to make a stand."

Family and friends alike questioned the need for police to shoot Jones in the chest.

"T hey didn't have to kill that boy," T rotter said. "T hey really didn't. He didn't have no gun, I'm sure."

Police provided footage from one of the officer's body cameras to local media T uesday
afternoon. T he family has requested that there not be any more protests, and that they be
allowed to grieve and find out the truth.

"We just want justice," Myers said. "We want justice for our family.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 
Danville police officers identified in fatal - Reidsville Review, The (NC) -
April 12, 2018
April 12, 2018 | Reidsville Review, The (NC) | Ceillie ​Simkiss BH Media

T wo Danville police officers shot at Juan Markee Jones
arms outstretched following a tense confrontation early Sunday — one officer with two years on
the force and the other with five years.

Juan Markee Jones  when he suddenly whipped around with his

As is procedure during officer-involved shootings in the city, the Danville Police Department
released the names of the two officers on Wednesday. Officer Christopher S. Simpkins began
working for the department on Dec. 1, 2012, and Officer David J. Branch began on March 1, 2016.
Neither have served with other departments, city police have confirmed.

Both officers will remain on administrative leave until the investigation is completed.

Jones, a 25-year-old black man from Danville, was shot twice in the chest, Dr. Sara Ohanessian,
with the Roanoke Medical Examiner's Office, confirmed to T he Associated Press. She said that her
office was conducting a toxicology report that is not yet completed.

It is not known if both officers shot Jones — city police referred the question to Virginia State
Police, which is investigating the incident. Requests for verification were not returned by the end of
business Wednesday.

Jones' cause of death was a gunshot wound to the chest, Ohanessian confirmed to the Register &
Bee.

He was likely unarmed — no weapons were found at the scene, state police have confirmed.

T he incident has placed Simpkins and Branch — both white men — into a national, and divisive,
narrative involving the deaths of unarmed black men at the hands of police officers, as well as the
protests that followed.

T hat narrative includes Stephon Clark, an unarmed black man who was fatally shot in March by
police in Sacramento, California, and stretches back the shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson,
Missouri, in 2014.

And as with other shootings, protests erupted. T he first came early Sunday outside SOVAH
Health-Danville, where Jones was pronounced dead. T he next came Monday, as more than 100
people marched on Danville's city hall carrying signs and chanting slogan calling for justice.

By Tuesday afternoon, Danville Police Chief Scott Booth released one angle of the body cam
footage to the media in an effort to curtail rumors about the shooting.

T he roughly eight-minute video begins when police arrive at 205 Sunset Drive, where Jones is
observed with a woman claiming that he assaulted her.

Another officer arrives on the scene, and asks if the man is armed.

"I don't know," an officer replies.

Jones stays in his car, ignoring commands to turn it off, get out, and show his hands. Instead, Jones
drives his car into the brush-filled, wooded area at the end of the cul-de-sac. Officers chase him
down.

Partially surrounded, Jones gets out of the vehicle, but does not show officers his hands. He stands
with his back to his car and his left side toward the officers. His left hand is at his side and his right
hand invisible to officers.

An officer holds a Taser and fires in an attempt to stun Jones. It doesn't work — because of the
brush, only one of the two prongs fired from the pistol-like device hit Jones, meaning there is not a
full circuit connected to him to deliver an electric shock.

Seconds later, Jones whirls around with his hands outstretched at chest level. Gunshots are heard
and Jones drops.

Small protests continued outside Danville city hall Wednesday evening. T his one had two dozen
black teenagers and young adults sitting on the stairs of the building, filling out a form to hold a
community gathering at Ballou Park.

One girl held aloft a sign that said "Pray for our city."

Jade Buskin was in charge of filling out the form, with guidance from several police officers. One
officer brought lollipops out for the children that were there with their parents.

"T his event isn't just about Juan," Buskin said. "It's about the entire community."

© Copyrig ht 2018, The Reidsville Review, Reidsville, NC

 
Pittsylvania County deputies called in to help - Danville Register & Bee
(VA) - April 14, 2018
April 14, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | Ceillie Simkiss

Shortly after a fatal officer-involved shooting of a 25-year-old man in Danville, more than a dozen
Pittsylvania County officers were called to help with a large crowd gathered at the local hospital,
dispatch logs show.

Pittsylvania County Sheriff Mike Taylor confirmed this week that sheriff's deputies responded to a
Juan Markee Jones .
request for mutual aid at SOVAH Health-Danville following the shooting of Juan Markee Jones

He said the gathering was peaceful, and no arrests were made.

T he series of events began when Danville officers were called at about 1 a.m. April 7 to a parking
lot in the 2300 block of North Main Street for the report of a domestic assault. While responding,
the caller — described by police as a 22-year-old woman — told dispatchers she went back to her
home in the 200 block of Sunset Drive "in an attempt to escape her attacker," police reported.

A video released Tuesday shows multiple Danville officers confront Jones on Sunset Drive as he sits
in his car and then tries to back away as officers yell at him to stop. At some point, after officers
repeatedly told him to step out of his car, Jones backs the vehicle into a wooded area and steps
out.

Jones, with his back to the officers, abruptly whirls around toward them with his hands
outstretched.

T hat's when police open fire and Jones drops to the ground.

Jones was transported to SOVAH Health-Danville where he was pronounced dead.

When asked, Danville Emergency Communication Director Steve Dishman said he couldn't release
the Danville police dispatch records since it's part of an ongoing investigation.

Pittsylvania County 911 dispatch notes obtained by the Danville Register & Bee show a timeline of
events from the outside agency asked to lend mutual aid.

However, Dishman said resource requests do not always come through a dispatch center.

"A lot of times, they'll call each other and get what they need," Dishman said.

T he first call comes into Pittsylvania County's 911 center at 2:04 a.m.

T he caller is identified as Cooper by the dispatcher.

At 2:05 a.m., the dispatcher notes a request for a K-9 unit for firearms.

T he first Pittsylvania County Sheriff's Office deputy — only identified only as unit 125 — arrives at
the scene of the shooting in Danville. It is now 2:16 a.m.

One minute later, the dispatcher notes there was an officer-involving shooting and that a Danville
Police Department major — only identified as Burke — asked for assistance at SOVAH Health-
Danville in reference to a "large crowd."

"Originally, they were sending units to Sunset, but from there, it looks like there was a call to send
extra units at the hospital," Pittsylvania County Emergency Services Director Jim Davis said Friday.
"T he units who were already on Sunset went over to the hospital."

Unit 126 arrives at the hospital at 2:33 a.m.

It's at 2:39 a.m. when another county officer — unit 121 — calls T aylor.

At 3 a.m., unit 121 requests for dispatch to put out a call for "anyone who can respond to DRMC."
(T he hospital was known for years as Danville Regional Medical Center and commonly referred to
simply as DRMC.)

A minute later dispatchers are told a police SWAT  team is not needed for the situation, logs show.

T aylor could not say how many people were gathered outside the hospital. Danville Police
Department Lt. Mike Wallace told the Register & Bee he did not know anything about the
gathering.

T he number of county officers grows to 14 at SOVAH Health-Danville to assist with the crowd. It's
now 4:14 a.m.

T aylor would not specify why so many officers were sent, saying that he could not speak to tactics.

By 6:24 a.m., units begin leaving from the scene at the hospital.

Back at 205 Sunset Drive, a Pittsylvania County K-9 arrives at 8:05 a.m. It's not clear if this K-9 is
from the request put out at 2:05 a.m. for firearms.

T he K-9 only stays for 10 minutes and leaves at 8:15 a.m., according to the dispatch notes.

T he last two county units left the hospital at 12:50 p.m.

Elizabeth Harris, marketing director of SOVAH Health, did not return multiple requests for
comment.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 

Danville community leaders praise police chief on - Danville Register &
Bee (VA) - April 10, 2018
April 10, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | ​John Crane

Local leaders are taking a measured tone on the fatal police-involved shooting that killed 25-year-
old Juan Markee Jones

Juan Markee Jones  early Sunday morning.

Danville Police Chief Scott Booth released the body-camera video of the shooting to the media
T uesday afternoon.

T he Rev. William Avon Keen, president of the Virginia and Danville/Pittsylvania County chapters of
the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, said he and a group of other ministers got a look at
parts of the video Monday. He would not comment on what he saw.

"Right now, it would be better for me to see other parts of the video," Keen said.

Keen and ministers met with Booth on Monday when the video was shown.

"I was glad he allowed us to see it," said Keen, who is also president of the Danville Ministerial
Alliance. "It helped give clarity as to what was going on."

Keen said he wanted to hold more meetings with young people in the community to advise them
on how to properly protest and reduce violence in the community.

Danville City Councilman Larry Campbell Jr. said the community should have the opportunity to view
the video so everyone can come together and evaluate what happened.

Campbell, who has seen parts of the video, commended Booth for his transparency and said the
issue of black men getting killing by police is a problem across the country.

"It's more of a national issue than a local issue," Campbell said, calling it black male genocide.

Referring to the police shooting of an unarmed black man last month in Sacramento, California,
Stephon Clark, Campbell said there is a problem with the "one- or two-second decision [police] have
to make" in those situations.

"It's open for discussion," Campbell said.

Campbell's father, Bibleway Cathedral Apostle Lawrence Campbell Sr., said he could not comment
without knowing more about the shooting.

"Before I would give a statement, I would like to know some more of the facts about it," he said
T uesday.

Mayor John Gilstrap urged everyone to pray for the community, including Jones' family and the
police officers.

"Right now, that's all we can do is pray until we get answers to all of our questions," the mayor said.

T he Rev. Cecil Bridgeforth, pastor at Shiloh Baptist Church in Danville, said he saw portions of the
video Monday.

"It is somewhat disturbing," Bridgeforth said.

He said he teaches members of his congregation to comply when pulled over by police. Failing to
do so causes suspicion and puts them in danger, he said.

"We jeopardize our safety when we're not compliant and we jeopardize a whole community when
we fail to do what is asked," said Bridgeforth, president of the Danville Voters League.

Once all the facts are out, "we can allow the legal system to do what it needs to do if the police are
wrong," he said.

He cautioned everyone not to jump to conclusions about what happened, and added that it was
dark outside when the incident occurred. T he Virginia State Police, which is investigating the
shooting, will find out whether it was justified, he said.

"In the meantime, we need to try and talk to our youth and adults and let them know the police is
there to protect us," Bridgeforth said.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 
Community Demands Answers In Police Killing Of - Michigan
Chronicle, The (Detroit, MI) - April 10, 2018
April 10, 2018 | Michigan Chronicle, The (Detroit, MI) | Nigel Roberts

Activists in south central Virginia were demanding to know exactly what led to the fatal police
shooting of a 25-year-old Black man from their community early Sunday morning.

See Also: North Carolina Cop Kills 60-Year-Old Black Man Within Minutes After A Traffic Stop

Approximately 100 demonstrators gathered Monday night at Danville's City Hall, some carrying
signs that read "We want answers" and "Black Lives Matter," to press officials for the details
surrounding the killing of Juan Markee Jones

Juan Markee Jones , GoDanRiver.com reported.

T he Virginia State Police have joined the investigation into the shooting that happened around 1
a.m. Sunday, according to the Washington Post. Danville police officers were responding to a
domestic disturbance when they encountered Jones, who was suspected of attacking a woman, a
statement from the police department said.

Jones allegedly tried to flee from the officers by driving to a nearby wooded area, police said. When
confronted again, he exited the vehicle but refused to show his hands, according to police. An
attempt to Taser him failed, police said. Jones was shot when he turned on the officers in a
"threatening" manner, according to the police version. No officers were injured in the incident.
Initial reports do not indicate whether Jones was armed, but chances are if he had a gun it would
have been emphasized by police.

After the shooting, Jones was transported to a hospital where he died, WDBJ-T V reported. His
remains were awaiting an autopsy in Roanoke. T he state police was expected to report its findings
to the Commonwealth's Attorney for review.

"It does not make sense," demonstrator Michelle T rent toldGoDanRiver.com about the shooting.
She urged calm and called on her fellow protesters to voice their concerns to local elected officials.
"Let them see. Let them hear your voice," she added.

Danville Police Department Chief Scott Booth addressed the protesters, as many of them
drowned him out with their angry shouts. He declined to identify the officers involved in the
shooting, but Booth vowed to reveal their names in the coming days.

SEE ALSO:

White Man Ran T he Biggest 'Black Lives Matter' Facebook Page And Profited Over Six Figures

Here's How Much Devonte Hart's Parents Reportedly Profited From Adopting Black Children

[ione_media_gallery src="https://newsone.com" id="3440564" overlay="true"]

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Michig an Chronicle

 
With back to officers, suspect abruptly whirls - Danville Register & Bee
(VA) - April 10, 2018
April 10, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | DENICE THIBODEAU

A body-camera video released to the media Tuesday by the Danville Police Department shows the
events leading up to the fatal police-involved shooting of Juan Markee Jones
morning.

Juan Markee Jones , 25, early Sunday

Because of "misinformation on social media" and in the interest of public and police safety, Danville
Police Chief Scott Booth said he decided to release the video and talk to the media about the
incident T uesday. He said he believes it is the first time the media has been offered copies of body-
camera video.

T he roughly 8-minute video shows multiple officers confront Jones on Sunset Drive as he sits in his
car and then tries to back away as officers yell at him to stop.

When asked if Jones had a weapon, Corinne Geller, public relations director for the Virginia State
Police, confirmed by email to the Register & Bee on Tuesday that a weapon was not recovered at
the scene. State police are leading the investigation.

T he video aired for media starts as police arrived in the 200 of Sunset Drive shortly after 1 a.m.
Sunday. Jones is seen with a woman who reported he assaulted her.

He then gets into his car and backs further down Sunset Drive, toward a cul-de-sac, with officers
yelling at him to shut the car off and get out of it, the video shows.

Jones pulled his car up to a brush-filled wooded area at the end of the cul-de-sac. It's very dark out,
the only light coming from cruiser headlights and the officers' flashlights.

In the video officers repeatedly tell him again to exit the car and when he does, to show his hands.

Jones instead stands with his left side toward the officers and his left hand at his side. His right
hand cannot be seen.

T here are more shouts, with officers ordering him to cooperate. When Jones did not respond, an
officer attempted to use a Taser to stun him, but only one prong hit him, causing him to flinch.

Deputy Chief Dean Hairston explained that both prongs of a Taser must hit a suspect for the
circuit to be completed. At this time, Hairston said, the incident is still under investigation by the
Virginia State Police, but it is believed the second prong got tangled up in the brush.

Officers repeatedly told Jones to show his hands, but not to reach up, video shows.

Jones, with his back to the officers, abruptly whirls around toward them with his hands
outstretched. T hat's when police open fire and Jones drops to the ground.

"T hat's what the officers saw that night," Hairston said. "T he decision they made was based on his
reaction at that time."

Dr. Sarah Ohanessian, with the state's Medical Examiner's Office, confirmed Jones' cause of death
was a gunshot wound to the chest.

Booth said he showed the video to family members on Monday and again T uesday.

"It was a very emotional experience," Booth said.

Community leaders, including the Danville Ministerial Alliance, were also shown the video.

"I wasn't going to go any further than that until I shared it with the family and certain community
leaders," Booth said.

Booth said a protest outside the police department Monday night was a peaceful one.

"[T hat] is exactly the way I want them to remain," he said. "We got word earlier today that we had
some outside interests that were here that were trying to change the narrative of the situation in a
way I don't believe is accurate from the information I'm getting."

"T he footage we are showing was selected because it shows the footage that best depicts the
incident from the viewpoint of that officer or officers that fired their weapon," Booth said.

Further information will have to come from the state police, Booth said.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 
Community Demands Answers In Police Killing Of - Chicago Defender
(IL) - April 10, 2018
April 10, 2018 | Chicago Defender (IL) | Roz Edward

Activists in south central Virginia were demanding to know exactly what led to the fatal police
shooting of a 25-year-old Black man from their community early Sunday morning.

See Also: North Carolina Cop Kills 60-Year-Old Black Man Within Minutes After A Traffic Stop

Approximately 100 demonstrators gathered Monday night at Danville's City Hall, some carrying
signs that read "We want answers" and "Black Lives Matter," to press officials for the details
surrounding the killing of Juan Markee Jones

Juan Markee Jones , GoDanRiver.com reported.

Juan Markee Jones .
Rest in Power, Juan Markee Jones

— Solidarity Cville (@SolidCville) April 10, 2018

Solidarity with # Danville — we too demand answers. # BlackLivesMatterhttps://t.co/VRkUZwWiPc

T he Virginia State Police have joined the investigation into the shooting that happened around 1
a.m. Sunday, according to the Washington Post. Danville police officers were responding to a
domestic disturbance when they encountered Jones, who was suspected of attacking a woman, a
statement from the police department said.

Jones allegedly tried to flee from the officers by driving to a nearby wooded area, police said. When
confronted again, he exited the vehicle but refused to show his hands, according to police. An
attempt to Taser him failed, police said. Jones was shot when he turned on the officers in a
"threatening" manner, according to the police version. No officers were injured in the incident.
Initial reports do not indicate whether Jones was armed, but chances are if he had a gun it would
have been emphasized by police.

After the shooting, Jones was transported to a hospital where he died, WDBJ-T V reported. His
remains were awaiting an autopsy in Roanoke. T he state police was expected to report its findings
to the Commonwealth's Attorney for review.

"It does not make sense," demonstrator Michelle T rent toldGoDanRiver.com about the shooting.
She urged calm and called on her fellow protesters to voice their concerns to local elected officials.
"Let them see. Let them hear your voice," she added.

Danville Police Department Chief Scott Booth addressed the protesters, as many of them
drowned him out with their angry shouts. He declined to identify the officers involved in the
shooting, but Booth vowed to reveal their names in the coming days.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Chicag o Defender

 
Court records: Man threatened self-harm before - Roanoke Times, The
(VA) - April 13, 2018 - page 4B
April 13, 2018 | Roanoke Times, The (VA) | Trevor Metcalfe Danville Register & Bee | Page 4B

T he 25-year-old Danville man shot dead by police early Sunday had threatened to kill himself just
moments before he was gunned down, court records show.

Court documents also note that four shell casings were found at the scene - a wooded area along
Sunset Drive in Danville - suggesting that four shots were fired by police officers that morning.
Juan Markee Jones
Juan Markee Jones  was shot twice in the chest, the Roanoke Medical Examiner's Offices has
confirmed to the Associated Press, but it is not known how many officers shot him.T he incident
followed a call to emergency dispatchers about the domestic assault of a man on a woman.

Just moments before that final confrontation, Jones made a phone call to the woman who
reported an assault, and "told her not to press charges against him and he reminded her that he
would not go back to prison he would kill himself first," reads a search warrant affidavit filed in
Danville Circuit Court on T uesday.

It could not be determined if Jones had a prison sentence in his criminal background. It is known
that Jones had an assault case pending in Danville General District Court when he died, court
records show. He was arrested Jan. 29 and charged with misdemeanor assault, as well as two
counts of threats over a telephone. He was accused of threatening a woman who lived on Sunset
Drive with a gun, court records show, and had a hearing set for T uesday, just two days after he
died.

T he narrative of the woman's Sunday morning call to dispatchers is part of a search warrant filed
by Special Agent Matthew Wade of the Virginia State Police, the agency tasked with investigating
the shooting. According to the affidavit, Wade has specialized training in police officer use-of-force
investigations.

She called dispatchers from the Sunrise Store on North Main Street and accused Jones of
assaulting her there, the search warrant states. She later called dispatchers again, this time from
her house in the 200 block of Sunset Drive, and said Jones had kicked her front door in an attempt
to get inside. T he woman said he got into his car and drove away, towards the dead-end section of
her street.

Wade filed the affidavit to search the land between 211 and 224 Sunset Drive. In a video, released
by Danville police on T uesday, officers arrive near the end of the dead-end street around 1 a.m. as
Jones attempts to leave in his blue Hyundai Veloster.

"Go ahead and get out of the car brother," an officer said in the video. "Don't be stupid."

"You did it. You kicked my door. You did it," a woman can be heard shouting.

"Get out of the car," an officer yells.

Jones instead backs the car around toward the cul-de-sac. T hat's when a phone ringtone can be
heard. T he body camera turns around to show what appears to be a woman on a cellphone.

"No, they're going to lock you up," the woman says. "You shouldn't have kicked my door."

T he officers eventually follow Jones to a brush-filled wooded area at the end of the road where he
stopped his car. Officers repeatedly tell him to get out of the car and to show his hands.

When Jones finally does step out of the vehicle, his left side is facing the officers and his left hand is
at his side. His right hand cannot be seen. Police fire a Taser at Jones, but only one of two prongs
hits his body - the second prong gets stuck in the brush. Both prongs must hit the suspect to
complete the circuit needed to stun the person with an electric jolt, police said.

Jones, with his back turned to the police, suddenly swivels around with his hands and arms
outstretched. Police almost immediately open fire, and Jones drops to the ground.

Wade - who also led an investigation into the January shooting involving police officers that killed
Richard T owler, 54 - also included Jones' blue car as a location to be searched. T he state police
officer wrote in the document that he was looking for: firearms, ammunition, cartridge casings,
deployed Taser leads and accompanying equipment, alcohol and containers that could contain
alcohol, cellphones, blood and bodily fluids and receipts.

T he warrant's return inventory lists: two Glock pistols, four 40-caliber shell casings, a T aser, a black
T aser cartridge, a Taser wire, a black ball cap and an iPhone.

T he two pistols likely belonged to the police who fired their weapons. State police, when asked if
Jones had a weapon, told the Register & Bee on Tuesday that a weapon was not recovered at the
scene.

On Wednesday, Danville police named officers Christopher S. Simpkins, with the department since
late 2012, and David J. Branch, with the department since early 2016, as those involved in the
shooting. Both will remain on administrative leave until the investigation is complete.

T he investigation, when finished, will be turned over to the Danville Commonwealth's Attorney's
Office for review and adjudication.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Roanoke Times

 
Official: Accuracy, timing causes delay in - Danville Register & Bee (VA)
- April 9, 2018
April 9, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | Trevor Metcalfe

Danville police say concerns about accuracy and timing caused the department to hold off on
confirming an officer-involved shooting for 13 hours Sunday.

Juan
Virginia State Police, now tasked with investigating the shooting, announced on Monday that Juan
M arkee Jones
M arkee Jones , 25, of Danville, is the man killed early Sunday morning after city police followed up
on a complaint of a domestic assault.

But multiple requests by the Register & Bee on Sunday for confirmation of a shooting were met by
statements from the local department that a release would be made about an "incident" under
investigation.

T hat news release came shortly after 2 p.m. Sunday afternoon, noting that Danville officers fatally
shot a suspect in a wooded area off of Sunset Drive shortly after a call for help that came in at
about 1 a.m. that morning.

A request for comment left at the office of Danville Police Department Chief Scott Booth was not
returned Monday, though he did put out a public statement.

"No Police officer wants to use deadly force nor do they want to use any form of force that could
result in serious injury," Booth said in a news release. "When death or serious injury happens, we
deeply regret the loss of life or injury and we feel compassion for them, their family and their
friends."

At Jones' home in North Danville on Monday afternoon, friends and family members gathered
outside. A friend of the family who asked not to be named expressed her doubts about the events
leading to Jones' death.

"T he police just didn't have to shoot him the way they did," she said.

Danville Police Department Lt. Michael Wallace said several factors played into why it took nearly
half a day to confirm the shooting, including the event happening in the early morning and on a
weekend, as well as efforts to make sure the information about the event was accurate.

Additionally, he said the department worked with state police on the information.

"T he state police are the lead agency in this investigation," Wallace said in an email. "T he release
was put out in cooperation with the State Police and with their input."

T he incident leading to Jones' shooting began when a 22-year-old woman complained to

emergency dispatchers that she had been assaulted in a parking lot in the 2300 block of North
Main Street, police report. It was while officers were en route there that she told dispatchers she
had been followed to her home in the 200 block of Sunset Drive "in an attempt to escape her
attacker," police report.

An adult male forced his way into her home, police said. When officers arrived, he walked away, got
in a vehicle and drove to a nearby wooded area.

Once there, police tried to use a Taser to stun him, but did that it not "make effective contact." T he
suspect then "suddenly turned on the officers in a threatening manner" and was shot.

In the Monday news release, Booth said the public shouldn't rush to judgment in regards to
rumors about the shooting. But he did not say what the rumors were.

"I ask citizens to reserve judgment and to wait for the State Police investigation to conclude so
that factual and accurate information can be communicated to the public," he said in the
statement.

T he police chief, who was sworn in earlier this year, said the officers involved would relive the
shooting for the rest of their lives. He also expressed confidence in the Virginia State Police
investigation of the shooting.

Booth said he also met with family members, city government and community members about
the shooting.

City Manager Ken Larking said there was misinformation floating around on social media about the
circumstances surrounding the incident.

"We would urge people to be skeptical and let the facts come out and be patient as we go through
this process," he said. "What we don't want is for people to take this misinformation and react in an
inappropriate way that could endanger themselves or others."

T he investigation is being conducted by the state police's Bureau of Criminal Investigation's Salem
Field Office at the request of Booth. Once the investigation is complete, it will be turned over to
Danville Commonwealth's Attorney Michael Newman for review.

Jones had an assault case pending in Danville General District Court when he was killed, court
records show. He was arrested on Jan. 29 and charged with misdemeanor assault, as well as two
counts of threats over a telephone. He threatened a woman who lived on Sunset Drive with a gun,
court records show, and had a hearing set for T uesday. It could not be determined if the woman
who called police on Sunday is the same woman who complained to police of telephoned threats in
January.

Jones also had another misdemeanor assault case from Sept. 8, which was dropped by
prosecutors in January.

T his marks the second officer-involved fatal shooting in Danville this year. On Friday, city Newman

announced his ruling that a Jan. 7 shooting of Richard T owler, 54, was justified.

Danville Officer Justin P. Nelson shot T owler following a 45-minute standoff that began after a
woman called 911 claiming that someone was shooting at her at 1069 Halifax Road. When officers
arrived at his doorstep, T owler shot at them through his front door, according to body-cam video
that Newman showed to the Register & Bee. Nearly an hour later, T owler stepped onto his porch
and once more fired at police, video showed. T hat's when Nelson fired back, fatally striking T owler
in the neck, an autopsy report shows. Inside the house, police discovered a deceased Crystal
Averett, 38, and a dead dog, both of them shot to death.

"As an organization, we intend to be as transparent about his as possible so that the people of
Danville will be confident that the appropriate justice is served," Larking said. "We have a
professional and well-trained police department and police officers on our staff. They're going to
do the best they can to keep the peace in Danville."

Staff writer John Crane contributed to this report.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 
Emails, texts detail discussion of Danville - Danville Register & Bee (VA)
- April 26, 2018
April 26, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | ​John Crane

It was about 2 a.m. when Danville City Manager Ken Larking got the call about the officer-involved
fatal shooting of 25-year-old Juan Markee Jones

Juan Markee Jones  on April 8.

Larking was asleep in Charleston, South Carolina, where he was visiting family.

"I was pretty tired, but when I heard about it, I was very concerned about everyone involved … the
suspect and also our officers," Larking said T hursday.

Deputy Chief Dean Hairston was the one who called both Larking and Police Chief Scott Booth,
who was in the Northern Neck of Virginia for a family medical emergency.

"Whenever there is an officer-involved [shooting], there is concern for the safety of the officers"
and what has happened in the community, Booth said.

"I got called very shortly after it happened," Booth said, unable to recall the exact time.

T hrough a Freedom of Information Act request, the Danville Register & Bee obtained copies of
communications between city officials, including emails and text messages, in the hours following
the shooting.

Police shot an unarmed Jones shortly after 1 a.m. at a wooded area along Sunset Drive following a
call from a woman complaining of a domestic assault at a North Main Street business. Police
body-camera video shows officers firing at Jones as he abruptly whirls toward them with arms
outstretched by his chest.

Discussion in the officials' messages involve the atmosphere at SOVAH Health-Danville where
Jones was transported, use of grammar as a news release on the shooting was being prepared
and reasons for releasing the police body-worn camera video of the shooting.

"T he suspect has passed away," Hairston wrote in a text message to Larking at 2:13 a.m. "Family
at hospital irate and making threats. Pitts. Co. [Pittsylvania County] deputes at hospital assisting."

At 9:25 a.m., Booth sends a copy of a draft new release to Larking, who responds at 10 a.m.

"T here is a switch to passive voice in the sentence about him [Jones] being shot by officers,"
Larking writes to Booth. "Perhaps it should be an active voice, like … 'In response to the perceived
threat, officer(s) shot the suspect.'"

Larking told the Register & Bee the recommendation was just for grammar purposes.

"I'm an English major," the city manager said. "It's one of those … when I see it, I try to correct it."

However, Larking said he left it up to the Danville Police Department and had no input as to what
information would be in the final version of the press release.

T here are few differences between the draft Larking saw and the version released to the media
nearly 13 hours after emergency dispatchers received the first calls for help.

T he main difference lies in the description of Jones' sudden turn toward officers already poised with
pistols aimed at him.

T he final version describes the failed attempt to subdue Jones with a Taser and states "T he adult
males suspect then suddenly turned on the officers in a threatening manner."

It was a description that left many unanswered questions.

T he draft version offered more description of Jones' sudden movement: "After the unsuccessful
T aser attempt, the man suddenly turned pulling his hidden hand from his waistband as if he was
pointing a firearm at the Officers."

Larking informed Danville City Councilmen of the shooting by text message between 9:30 and 10
a.m. Sunday, after calling them.

If it's a matter of public interest that will cause council members to be questioned about it, Larking
said, then he will pass that information to them.

"It's my job to make sure the City Council is as informed as possible on things we're dealing with,"
he added. "It's to keep the council informed so they can speak to their constituents in the best way
possible."

Booth said the news release was approved by the Virginia State Police, which is investigating the
shooting, before it was released to the public.

T he release, Booth said, was much more detailed than others he has seen during his career.

"We're trying to be as transparent as possible," Booth said.

As for the release of the body-cam video of the shooting, Larking emailed the mayor and other
council members at 2:10 p.m. that Tuesday to let them know the video would be released to the
public that afternoon.

"T he reason is because there is a growing false narrative that the person who was shot was not
posing a threat and we want to be as transparent as possible," Larking wrote.

He had sent a statement to councilmen at 10:42 a.m. Monday letting them know that Booth
spoke to Jones' mother and planned to visit her and possibly show her the body-cam video.

It also told them Booth had planned to meet with the Danville Ministerial Alliance to discuss what
happened and show footage of the video, if he were able to show it to Jones' mother first.

When video was released to the public Tuesday afternoon, Larking asked Booth about it via
cellphone text at 3:17 p.m.

"Doing it now," Booth responded. "So far so good. Family is upset. Black Panther party is in town
and was visiting w family."

"How did the video release go?"

"All media represented?" Larking said.

"Yes."

At 4:32.p.m. Wednesday, Larking informs council members by email of a protest happening at City
Hall.

"T here is currently a small protest occurring at City Hall on the Court Street side," Larking wrote. "If
you would like to have access to the building through another door, let me know and we will make
arrangements."

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 
Secrecy Shouldn't Surround Body-Cam Videos in - Danville Register &
Bee (VA) - May 13, 2018
May 13, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | THE EDITORIAL BOARD

In less than 10 years, body cameras have become an almost ubiquitous part of a police officer's
uniform, but as is typical, the laws governing their use and the public's right of access to the
footage have yet to catch up to the technology, especially in Virginia.

Let's take three recent instances to examine how police departments and the courts have gone in
three different directions regarding body cam footage of four high-profile incidents in Danville,
Lynchburg and Chesterfield County.

First, in Danville, we have the fatal shooting of Juan Markee Jones

Juan Markee Jones  early on April 8.

T he Danville emergency dispatch center received a 911 call from a woman saying Jones had
assaulted her and followed her home, where he kicked on the door of her house and was
threatening her. When police arrived, confusion reigned, as one would expect, as officers made
efforts to ascertain exactly what had transpired.

During the encounter, Jones drove off, stopping and getting out of his car at the street's dead end.
When he got out of his car, disobeying police orders to surrender, officers deployed a T aser, but
one of the leads failed to make contact with him and complete the circuit. Jones then turned
toward officers, assuming a posture that would indicate he was in possession of a gun. It was then
that officers fatally shot him.

Rumors about the circumstances of the shooting flew through the community. On Monday, Chief
Scott Booth met with the family and showed them the body cam footage of the incident; the next
day, he sat down with ministers and other civic leaders to watch the video before releasing it to the
general public. What on Sunday afternoon and Monday morning had been an extremely tense,
angry situation was defused because people came to see that officers were left with no choice in
the incident.

In Lynchburg, there have been two officer-involved shootings in the last seven months: the
November 2017 fatal shooting of Pamela Webber and the February 2018 shooting Walker Sigler in
his home on Link Road. In the Webber case, police responding to a 911 call about a suicidal woman
wound up shooting Webber when they said she "advanced on officers in a threatening manner"
with a knife. In the Sigler shooting, officers driving in the area thought something suspicious was
going on at the house when they saw the front door ajar sometime after 1 a.m. Sigler wound up
being shot multiple times through the door of his home.

In both cases, the Lynchburg Police Department has confirmed body cam footage exists but have
denied requests to release it, citing still-ongoing Virginia State Police investigations of the incidents.
Even after the investigations have been closed and decisions rendered by special prosecutors in

Arlington and Virginia Beach handling them, there's the very real possibility the videos could never
be seen by the public.

And in Chesterfield County, body-cam footage of a Feb. 4 traffic stop is at the center of a court
fight between the news media and the county's police department.

A Chesterfield officer pulled a teenaged Virginia State University student after he rolled through a
stop light early that morning. Officers claimed they smelled pot and asked the teen to get out of
the car, which he did. When asked if he had anything illegal in his possession, he said he had a knife
in his pocket and started to retrieve it for officers, at which point a second officer trained his
weapon on him. (T he knife, by the way, was totally legal and no charges resulted.)

T he incident drew national attention as the teen's mother is a top editor of T he Root, a well-known
African-American political and cultural journal. When a reporter from Reason magazine filed a FOIA
request for the video, the Chesterfield police rejected it, claiming she would likely edit it and portray
the incident out of the context of the 15-minute long video. A Richmond judge denied the
reporter's appeal earlier this month, saying now the footage was part of an ongoing criminal
investigation — remember, though, police filed no charges against the driver — and was therefore
exempt from FOIA in addition to writing in his ruling that the reporter "desires not simply to view
the video but also to post it [for] public viewing on a website maintained by reason.com." Indeed,
Chesterfield won't release any body-cam footage to prevent any editing, only allowing viewing at
the department's discretion.

Four high-profile incidents, three different outcomes. In on case, the public learns that, yes, its law
enforcement officers acted properly and with tremendous discretion. In the other incidents, denied
access to the videos, the public, rightly or wrongly, is left to wonder if police are hiding something.
And in the police/public relationship, even a twinge of doubt can be poisonous.

As is the case with much of government, transparency results in public trust of civil institutions,
while secrecy and closed doors breeds mistrust. "Sunshine laws" are the order of the day in many
states, Florida being the most open with records. We long for the day when Virginia might join the
ranks of those states, perhaps even equaling Florida in opening the people's government to the
people themselves.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 
Protesting police-involved fatal shooting, more - Danville Register &
Bee (VA) - April 9, 2018
April 9, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | TREVOR METCALFE AND JOHN CRANE | Register & Bee

With signs that read "We want answers" and "Black Lives Matter," more than 100 mostly black
protestors marched to city hall in the downtown Monday evening following the police-involved
shooting of Juan Markee Jones

Juan Markee Jones , a 25-year-old black man.

"Somebody didn't need to sacrifice their life," the Rev. Alonzo T ate Jr. told the crowd.

At times, the protest grew tense, especially as Danville Police Department Chief Scott Booth
stepped up in front of the Danville Municipal Building to address the crowd.

But his words were hard to hear, sometimes because people shouted over top of him, and other
times because his voice did not carry over the crowd.

He did note that the names of the officers involved in the shooting would be announced in a few
days — as part of a policy of naming officers involved in a shooting three days after the event, an
apparent carryover from the administration of former Chief Phillip Broadfoot, who retired in
January.

T he protest, and the shooting, comes on the heels of other mass-protests against officer-
involved shootings of black men nationwide.

At one point Monday evening, a handful of protestors standing atop city hall steps shouted in a
singsong tone: "We want justice, we want peace!"

Protestors locked arms and prayed, while others live-streamed the event from their phones as
close to a dozen Danville police officers watched over the crowd.

"It does not make sense," marcher Michelle T rent said about the shooting.

T rent asked the protestors to remain peaceful, and to take their concerns up at Danville City
Council meetings. She also asked them to register to vote.

"Let them see," T rent said. "Let them hear your voice."

Fellow marcher T ae Holland asked the crowd to remember Jones' mother and to keep her in their
thoughts.

"T here's nothing she can do about none of this," he said.

Protestor Sarah Lipscomb told the crowd that their lives were important.

"You are kings and queens and you do matter," Lipscomb said.

Leading the group in prayer, T ate, who is the pastor at Immanuel Kingdom Praise and Worship
Center, also asked for prayers to go out to the police department.

"God, the city of Danville needs you right now," T ate said.

Among the protestors approached for comment, several declined to speak to the Danville Register
& Bee, while others said they showed up to show solidarity with the victim and the community.

"I just came to show my respect," said Danville resident Antionette Garland.

She added that "some of these kids need to get right with God," and said she needed to as well.

What happened to Jones on Sunday morning should not have happened, she said.

"He didn't deserve to be shot," Garland said.

Dominic Coleman, 27, said he was friends with Jones all his life.

"He was a good person," Coleman said, adding that he was fun to be around. "He was loyal. He
didn't do nothing wrong."

"I want justice — not just for Danville, but everywhere," Coleman said.

He wondered aloud why the situation couldn't have turned out differently.

"Why did the officer choose the gun?" he said.

Danville resident Rickey Everett questioned the tactics of police.

"T hey're quick to shoot somebody with no gun," he said.

It is not known whether Jones had a weapon during the incident.

T heresa J. Carter, a member of Mothers Stronger T ogether, said she was at the event for social
justice and wants the violence to stop.

"I don't like this," Carter said. "Not in my city. It's sad."

Elders in the community need to take the young people into the classroom and teach them who
they are and where they came from, she said.

"I don't want them killing each other," Carter said.

Danville resident Latasha West said, "Our black men are dying amongst each other and from the

police, as well. We need to value our lives and value ourselves so they'll value us."

"I didn't know the young man [Jones], but it was a life, somebody's son," West said. "T hese kids …
what kind of life are they going to have if we don't stop this now?"

"[We're] beautiful black people," she said. "We need to realize that."

Fifty-seven-year-old Johnny B. Mayo, holding his 3-year-old grandson Kayden, said he came to
support everyone.

"It's a sad situation," Mayo said.

He said he was happy to see so many young people and others gathered, but wished the reason
was different.

"I just wish it could be on a more positive note," said Mayo, a member of Virginia Organizing. "I'm
glad to see everyone is being peaceful and respectful."

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 
Kudos to the Danville PD for openness - News & Advance, The
(Lynchburg, VA) - April 13, 2018
April 13, 2018 | News & Advance, The (Lynchburg, VA) | Staff Writer

T hese days, trust in public institutions is at all-time lows. If only the Pentagon and President Lyndon
Johnson had been truthful about what was happening on the ground in Vietnam. If only President
Richard Nixon had just immediately 'fessed up the third rate burglary that was Watergate instead
of trying to cover it up. If only Facebook and Mark Zuckerberg were straightforward with its 2
billion users about what the company did with their personal data.

If only. T he one thing common to all these scenarios is a lack of transparency with the public.

Our neighbors to the south in Danville have a police department and a chief keenly aware of how
important public transparency is for law enforcement agencies.

Since January, Chief Scott Booth has handled two fatal, officer-involved shootings, and done so in
an exemplary manner.

On Jan. 7 and on April 8, Danville police officers responded to two 9-1-1 calls from women reporting
serious threats of domestic violence. In the Jan. 7 incident, officers arrived at the home and, after
calling on the man to come out, were greeted with a volley of gunfire. T he officer returned fire,
killing the man. On April 8, in another domestic call, officers arrived on the scene and saw the
female caller in a car with Juan Markee Jones
off, getting out of his car at the end of the cul-de-sac and turning suddenly toward officers, who
fatally shot him, believing he had a gun.

Juan Markee Jones . After telling him to exit the vehicle, instead he drove

Within three days of the Jan. 7 incident, Chief Booth released the name of the officer who fired the
fatal shots, revealing him to be a veteran law enforcement officer with a spotless record. Within
two days of the April 8 shooting, Booth released bodycam footage; one day later, he released the
names of the two officers involved.

Contrast how the Lynchburg Police Department handles officer-involved shootings, and you'll see
a vastly different approach.

It has been 55 days since Lynchburg Police Department officers driving down Link Road noticed a
home's front door partially open at 1:15 a.m. on a Saturday morning, stopped and wound up
shooting the homeowner in the leg. And it has been 158 days since LPD officers shot and killed a
suicidal, knife-wielding woman on Triangle Place after an hours-long standoff.

Fifty-five days and 158 days, respectively, of silence from the LPD as to exactly what happened ,
who the officers involved in the shooting were and whether body-cam footage of the incidents
exists.

T hat simply is unacceptable. In both cases, the Virginia State Police is conducting an investigation
and special prosecutors have been appointed to handle them. (Virginia Beach for the T riangle
Place killing and Alexandria for the Link Road shooting). And in both cases, precious little
information has been forthcoming from LPD.

Citing the probe, city leadership will not divulge any additional information, including the names of
the officers involved, their service records or what may be available through body-cam footage.
We understand and support the need for an outside investigation, as well as the need to with hold
some details until it's complete. But we part ways with city leadership to shut information down
completely.

We believe it is in the city's best interest to have law enforcement that is open and transparent with
the public it serves. We support the approach in Danville, and urge LPD Chief Rau lDiaz and city
leadership to also opt for transparency: Release the officers' names and service histories.
Openness and trust go hand in hand.

© Copyrig ht 2018, The News & Advance, Lynchburg , VA

 
Prosecutor: Danville police justified in lethal - Danville Register & Bee
(VA) - June 18, 2018
June 18, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | DENICE THIBODEAU

In the course of about 20 minutes in the early hours of April 8, a Danville woman was assaulted and
her accused assailant was shot and killed by Danville police, show videos released by the Danville
Commonwealth's Attorney's Office on Monday.

It was the culmination of a domestic dispute between Shantaria Plunkett, of Sunset Drive, and Juan
Juan
M arkee Jones
M arkee Jones , 25, that began Christmas Day, with Plunkett filing assault and battery charges
against Jones, Danville Commonwealth's Attorney Michael Newman said during a news
conference.

T he domestic abuse complaint is why police had no choice but to try to arrest Jones that early April
morning, Newman explained. And his erratic movement, later seen on video, is why officers feared
for their lives and shot to death the unarmed man.

"We are not seeking any charges on the officers," Newman said, nearly two weeks after receiving
the investigation from Virginia State Police.

Capt. Dennis Haley, with the Danville Police Department, said the two officers involved in the
shooting — Christopher S. Simpkins, with five years on the force, and David J. Branch, with two
years on the force — had been on administrative assignment throughout the investigation.

"T hey were not on the street," Haley said. "T hey were assigned to other duties."

On April 8, surveillance video appears to show Jones arriving at the Sunrise Store on North Main
Street shortly before 1 a.m. A few minutes later, Plunkett arrived and walked over to his vehicle
briefly, then walked toward her car.

Jones followed her, shoved her into the side of her car and Plunkett fell to the ground. He then is
seen hitting Plunkett then circling his hands around her neck.

"He was actually strangling her," Newman said, noting that the marks on her throat were later
visible to police officers.

Jones drove off and Plunkett called 911, reporting the incident and asking for police and ambulance
assistance, then went to her home on Sunset Drive.

Newman said the residence was Plunkett's, but she had allowed Jones to stay there despite
"multiple reports of being called to the address," said Virginia State Police Special Agent Rick
Conley.

Moments later, Jones pulled up.

A neighbor's surveillance video shows him opening the screen door at the front of the house then
trying to kick the door open.

Plunkett again called 911, leaving her house through the back door. While she was on the phone,
the first police car arrived.

Ultimately, five police officers with body cameras were at the address.

Newman showed video taken by Officer C.A. Mitchell's body camera, with slightly different angles
than the video police had released shortly after the incident — but the end result was the same.

Jones tried to leave the scene, driving to the end of the cul-de-sac. On the video, officers are heard
telling Jones to wait since there was nowhere for him to go on the dead-end street.

"T he officers did what they were supposed to do," Newman said. "T hey tried to wait him out."

T hen Jones surprised them by driving through brush into a wooded area, where his car stopped.

Officers ran down the road, shouting for Jones to get out of the car and show his hands. Instead,
he stood by the car, with his side to the police so his right arm and hand were hidden.

T he officers tried using a less-than-lethal Taser to subdue him, but it failed because one of its two
prongs got caught in the brush. When Jones swung toward the police with his arm raised, five shots
were fired, two hitting Jones. He was declared dead at SOVAH Health-Danville.

It was an event that seemed to fall into the national narrative of unarmed black men being shot to
death by police. So did the protest that erupted on the steps of the Danville Municipal Building the
day after the shooting. T o quash rumors, Danville Police Chief Scott Booth addressed the
protestors and the next day released some footage of the event.

Immediately after the shooting, local police called in the state police to investigate. At the Monday
news conference, Newman showed the 3 inches-thick notebooks full of documents and reports,
and videos of the scene at the Sunrise Store, tapes of the 911 calls, and body camera video of the
whole time police were on Sunset Drive.

After reviewing the findings, Newman said he would not be prosecuting the police officers.

Conley and his partner in the investigation, Special Agent Matthew Wade, said the state police are
being called in by more local police departments to investigate officer-involved shootings in an
effort to show an impartial investigation is taking place.

One tool they say is very helpful in those investigations are the body cameras many department
now have.

"T hey pay for themselves," Conley noted.

Newman said the release of the initial body camera video showed exactly how things played out.

"Danville is ahead of the curve with body cameras," he said, noting the cameras tracked the
incident from the officers' arrival to "the unfortunate shooting."

"We're being open," he said. "We're not covering anything up.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 
Warrant: Man threatened to kill himself before - Daily Progress, The
(Charlottesville, VA) - April 13, 2018
April 13, 2018 | Daily Progress, The (Charlottesville, VA) | TREVOR METCALFEDanville Register & Bee

DANVILLE — T he 25-year-old Danville man shot dead by police early Sunday had threatened to kill
himself just moments before he was gunned down, court records show.

Court documents also note that four shell casings were found at the scene, suggesting that four
shots were fired by police officers that morning. Juan Markee Jones
Juan Markee Jones  was shot twice in the chest,
but it is not known how many officers shot him.

Police body-camera video shows officers firing at Jones as he abruptly whirls toward them with
arms outstretched by his chest. T he incident followed a call to emergency dispatchers about the
domestic assault of a man on a woman.

Just moments before that final confrontation, Jones made a phone call to the woman who
reported an assault, and "told her not to press charges against him and he reminded her that he
would not go back to prison he would kill himself first," reads a search warrant affidavit filed in
Danville Circuit Court on T uesday.

It could not be determined if Jones had a prison sentence in his criminal background. Jones had an
assault case pending in Danville General District Court when he died, court records show. He was
arrested Jan. 29 and charged with misdemeanor assault, as well as two counts of threats over a
telephone. He was accused of threatening a woman with a gun, court records show, and had a
hearing set for T uesday, just two days after he died.

© Copyrig ht 2018, The Daily Prog ress, Charlottesville, VA

 
Warrant: Suspect threatened to kill himself before - Danville Register &
Bee (VA) - April 12, 2018
April 12, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | Trevor Metcalfe

T he 25-year-old Danville man shot dead by police early Sunday had threatened to kill himself just
moments before he was gunned down, court records show.

Court documents also note that four shell casings were found at the scene — a wooded area
along Sunset Drive in Danville — suggesting that four shots were fired by police officers that
morning. Juan Markee Jones
Juan Markee Jones  was shot twice in the chest, the Roanoke Medical Examiner's
Offices has confirmed to the Associated Press, but it is not known how many officers shot him.

Police body-camera video shows officers firing at Jones as he abruptly whirls toward them with
arms outstretched by his chest. T he incident followed a call to emergency dispatchers about the
domestic assault of a man on a woman.

Just moments before that final confrontation, Jones made a phone call to the woman who
reported an assault, and "told her not to press charges against him and he reminded her that he
would not go back to prison he would kill himself first," reads a search warrant affidavit filed in
Danville Circuit Court on T uesday.

It could not be determined if Jones had a prison sentence in his criminal background. It is known
that Jones had an assault case pending in Danville General District Court when he died, court
records show. He was arrested Jan. 29 and charged with misdemeanor assault, as well as two
counts of threats over a telephone. He was accused of threatening a woman who lived on Sunset
Drive with a gun, court records show, and had a hearing set for T uesday, just two days after he
died.

T he narrative of the woman's Sunday-morning call to dispatchers is part of a search warrant filed
by Special Agent Matthew Wade of the Virginia State Police, the agency tasked with investigating
the shooting. According to the affidavit, Wade has specialized training in police officer use-of-force
investigations.

She called dispatchers from the Sunrise Store on North Main Street and accused Jones of
assaulting her there, the search warrant states. She later called dispatchers again, this time from
her house in the 200 block of Sunset Drive, and said Jones had kicked her front door in an attempt
to get inside. T he woman said he got into his car and drove away, towards the dead-end section of
her street.

Wade filed the affidavit to search the land between 211 and 224 Sunset Drive. In a video, released
by Danville police on T uesday, officers arrive near the end of the dead-end street around 1 a.m. as
Jones attempts to leave in his blue Hyundai Veloster.

"Go ahead and get out of the car brother," an officer said in the video. "Don't be stupid"

"You did it. You kicked my door. You did it," a woman can be heard shouting.

"Get out of the car," an officer yells.

Jones instead backs the car around toward the cul-de-sac. T hat's when a phone ringtone can be
heard. T he body camera turns around to show what appears to be a woman on a cellphone. She
answers with a "What?" then verbally dismisses what the caller is saying.

"No, they're going to lock you up," the woman says. "You shouldn't have kicked my door."

T he officers eventually follow Jones to a brush-filled wooded area at the end of the road where he
stopped his car. Officers repeatedly tell him to get out of the car and to show his hands.

When Jones finally does step out of the vehicle, his left side is facing the officers and his left hand is
at his side. His right hand cannot be seen.

Police fire a Taser at Jones, but only one of two prongs hits his body — the second prong gets
stuck in the brush. Both prongs must hit the suspect to complete the circuit needed to stun the
person with an electric jolt, police said.

Jones, with his back turned to the police, suddenly swivels around with his hands and arms
outstretched. Police almost immediately open fire, and Jones drops to the ground.

Wade — who also led an investigation into the January shooting involving police officers that killed
Richard T owler, 54 — also included Jones' blue car as a location to be searched. T he state police
officer wrote in the document that he was looking for: firearms, ammunition, cartridge casings,
deployed Taser leads and accompanying equipment, alcohol and containers that could contain
alcohol, cellphones, blood and bodily fluids and receipts.

T he warrant's return inventory lists: two Glock pistols, four 40-caliber shell casings, a T aser, a black
T aser cartridge, a Taser wire, a black ball cap and an iPhone.

T he two pistols likely belonged to the police who fired their weapons. State police, when asked if
Jones had a weapon, told the Register & Bee on Tuesday that a weapon was not recovered at the
scene.

On Wednesday, Danville police named officers Christopher S. Simpkins, with the department since
late 2012, and David J. Branch, with the department since early 2016, as those involved in the
shooting. Both will remain on administrative leave until the investigation is complete.

T he investigation, when finished, will be turned over to the Danville Commonwealth's Attorney's
Office for review and adjudication.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 

 
DANVILLE, Va. (AP) - Virginia State Police are investigating the fatal weekend shooting of a 25-year-old man by

Danville officers.  

State police said in a statement Monday that the man who was shot has been identified as Juan Markee Jones.  

Danville police previously said the shooting followed a domestic disturbance call Sunday. According to a news

release , officers encountered a man suspected of attacking a woman.  

Police say the man ignored commands and drove into a nearby wooded area. Confronted again there, he exited the

vehicle but refused to show his hands.  

The news release says a Taser was deployed without success. The man then turned on the officers in a

"threatening" manner, and officers fired at him.  

No officers were injured.  

State police will turn over their findings to a prosecutor for review.  

Credit: By STEVEN DUBOIS, Associated Press 
 
 

Experts provide analysis of video released by - Danville Register & Bee
(VA) - April 12, 2018
April 12, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | ​John Crane

Sunday morning's fatal police-involved shooting of 25-year-old Juan Markee Jones
been a case of suicide by cop, suggested a former police officer and use-of-force expert.

Juan Markee Jones  may have

"When he rapidly turns around and extends his arms [toward police] … if you have a person that
does this, it looks like they're trying to draw fire," said Roy Bedard, who was a police officer in
T allahassee, Florida, for 30 years. "He's clearly disturbed. It looks like he's getting officers to do
this one deed … something he doesn't want to do himself."

Bedard, who lives in T allahassee, gave a detailed analysis of the police body-camera video of the
shooting, released by Danville Police Chief Scott Booth on T uesday.

T he use-of-force expert said he believed the shooting was justified.

T he roughly eight-minute video begins when police arrive at 205 Sunset Drive early Sunday
morning just before 1 a.m., where Jones is observed with a woman who earlier called emergency
dispatchers claiming that he assaulted her.

Another officer arrives on the scene, and asks if the man is armed.

"I don't know," an officer replies.

Jones stays in his car, ignoring commands to turn it off, get out, and show his hands. Instead, Jones
drives his car into a brush-filled, wooded area at the end of a cul-de-sac. Officers chase him down.

Partially surrounded, Jones gets out of the vehicle, but does not show officers his hands. He stands
with his back to his car and his left side toward the officers. His left hand is at his side and his right
hand invisible to officers.

An officer holds a Taser and fires in an attempt to stun Jones. It doesn't work — because of the
brush, only one of the two prongs fired from the pistol-like device hits Jones, meaning there is not a
full circuit connected to him to deliver an electric shock.

Seconds later, Jones whirls around with his hands outstretched at chest level. Gunshots are heard
and Jones drops.

"He makes all the moves that are typically associated with somebody holding a firearm," Bedard
said.

No weapons were found at the scene, confirmed the Virginia State Police, the agency tasked with

investigating the shooting.

Police officers are trained to look for postural cues in those types of situations, he said, pointing
out Jones's sudden turn and extension of his arms.

"T hose postural cues, to a trained police officer, create a belief that there's a firearm there if there
isn't," Bedard said.

Also, it was dark outside and police officers were dealing with an entangled, convoluted
environment during the confrontation with Jones just before he was shot, Bedard said.

"It's difficult to see with clarity," he said while viewing the video and giving an analysis of the actions
in it. "T he only option they have is to look at postural cues. T his guy is in a thicket. Police are
dealing with limited light sources, they are dealing with not being able to see his hands."

But another expert said the outcome could have been different.

"He wasn't going to cooperate under the scenario that unfolded, but that didn't have to be the
outcome," said Jeffrey Fagan, Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher professor of law at Columbia Law
School in New York. "For example, they could have explained to him what would happen if and
when he got out of the car."

"T hey could have shown more detailed and personal knowledge they had about him [from his
record, if there was one] to establish some type of personal connection to him," Fagan added.
"T hey could simply have waited him out. Eventually, he would have both calmed down and become
tired."

Also, just before the shooting, officers could have told him to lie down on the ground and explained
why they wanted him to do so, which would be for everyone's safety, Fagan said.

"In other words, narrowing the psychological space between him and them might have calmed him
enough to get his cooperation," he said.

As for other parts of the video, the police could have de-escalated the situation at the beginning by
separating the suspect and the woman who made the initial complaint, Bedard said.

In the video, the woman can be heard yelling at Jones as police are ordering him to get out of his
car.

"No, they're going to lock you up," the woman says at one point. "You shouldn't have kicked my
door."

T he way police hemmed Jones into the cul-de-sac with their cars was reasonable, Bedard said.

Also, calling for backup was the smart thing to do, he added.

"It's unusual circumstances," Bedard said.

By using a Taser at first, police were establishing a "force continuum" using the amount of force
necessary to deal with the situation, he said.

"T he offers are calculating a variety of unusual circumstances in trying to find meaning in what's
going on here," Bedard said. "It's not entirely unseen."

Officers seem confused and are having to sort out a lot of information in a short amount of time.

Verbal commands were loud and succinct, he pointed out.

"T hey're doing a very good job of controlling communication, with one person giving commands,"
Bedard said, adding that too many officers giving orders at once can create more confusion.

Maxwelle Sokol, a member of the National Police Accountability Project, said she does not have
enough facts to say whether the shooting was justified.

"It's not clear to me where the other officers were," Sokol said. "A lot of things are not clear in the
video, which makes an assessment difficult at this stage."

Eugene O'Donnell, professor of law and police studies at John Jay College of Criminal Justice at City
University of New York, pointed out the complexity of the situation, where police officers were
calm and collected and then matters escalated quickly.

Officers are going to be highly concerned when they can't see the suspect's hands, O'Donnell
pointed out. Non-compliance is also a red flag, he said.

"Police are not like everybody else," he said. "T he police mindset is often the worst-case scenario."

T he video shows how quickly a routine event can turn into something that police believe puts their
lives in danger, O'Donnell said.

T he national conversation about fatal police shootings of suspects and the use of force could be
causing suspects to act more irrationally in those situations, O'Donnell added.

"With some of the political conversation, we may have a climate where it puts irrational people at
risk," he said.

In addition, a society — like the United States—with so many guns will see more fatal police-
involved shootings because those situations are more likely to pose a danger to officers, he said.

"In America, you have the ever-present problem of guns," he said.

Also, police are on high alert because officers say suspects are less compliant now and law
enforcement authority has eroded, he said.

"T hat can actually have the unintended effect of putting irrational people at greater risk," O'

Donnell said.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 
No charges in police shooting - News & Advance, The (Lynchburg, VA) -
June 19, 2018
June 19, 2018 | News & Advance, The (Lynchburg, VA) | Denice ThibodeauThe (Danville) Register & Bee

In the course of about 20 minutes in the early hours of April 8, a Danville woman was assaulted and
her accused assailant was shot and killed by Danville police, show videos released by the Danville
Commonwealth's Attorney's Office on Monday.

It was the culmination of a domestic dispute between Shantaria Plunkett, of Sunset Drive, and Juan
Juan
M arkee Jones
M arkee Jones , 25, that began Christmas Day, with Plunkett filing assault and battery charges
against Jones, Danville Commonwealth's Attorney Michael Newman said during a news
conference.

T he domestic abuse complaint is why police had no choice but to try to arrest Jones that early April
morning, Newman explained. And his erratic movement, later seen on video, is why officers feared
for their lives and shot to death the unarmed man.

"We are not seeking any charges on the officers," Newman said, nearly two weeks after receiving
the investigation from Virginia State Police.

Capt. Dennis Haley, with the Danville Police Department, said the two officers involved in the
shooting — Christopher S. Simpkins, with five years on the force, and David J. Branch, with two
years on the force — had been on administrative assignment throughout the investigation.

"T hey were not on the street," Haley said. "T hey were assigned to other duties."

On April 8, surveillance video appears to show Jones arriving at the Sunrise Store on North Main
Street shortly before 1 a.m. A few minutes later, Plunkett arrived and walked over to his vehicle
briefly, then walked toward her car.

Jones followed her and shoved her into the side of her car, and Plunkett fell to the ground. He then
is seen hitting Plunkett then circling his hands around her neck.

"He was actually strangling her," Newman said, noting the marks on her throat later were visible to
police officers.

Jones drove off and Plunkett called 911, reporting the incident and asking for police and ambulance
assistance, then went to her home on Sunset Drive.

Newman said the residence was Plunkett's, but she had allowed Jones to stay there despite
"multiple reports of being called to the address," Virginia State Police Special Agent Rick Conley
said.

Moments later, Jones pulled up.

A neighbor's surveillance video shows him opening the screen door at the front of the house then
trying to kick the door open.

Plunkett again called 911, leaving her house through the back door. While she was on the phone,
the first police car arrived. Ultimately, five police officers with body cameras were at the address.

Newman showed video taken by Officer C.A. Mitchell's body camera, with slightly different angles
than the video police had released shortly after the incident — but the end result was the same.

Jones tried to leave the scene, driving to the end of the cul-desac. On the video, officers are heard
telling Jones to wait since there was nowhere for him to go on the dead-end street.

"T he officers did what they were supposed to do," Newman said. "T hey tried to wait him out."

T hen Jones surprised them by driving through brush into a wooded area, where his car stopped.

Officers ran down the road, shouting for Jones to get out of the car and show his hands. Instead,
he stood by the car, with his side to the police so his right arm and hand were hidden.

T he officers tried using a less-than-lethal Taser to subdue him, but it failed because one of its two
prongs got caught in the brush. When Jones swung toward the police with his arm raised, five shots
were fired, two hitting Jones. He was declared dead at SOVAH Health-Danville.

It was an event that seemed to fall into the national narrative of unarmed black men being shot to
death by police. So did the protest that erupted on the steps of the Danville Municipal Building the
day after the shooting. T o quash rumors, Danville Police Chief Scott Booth addressed the
protesters and the next day released some footage of the event.

Immediately after the shooting, local police called in the state police to investigate. At the Monday
news conference, Newman showed the 3 inches-thick notebooks full of documents and reports,
and videos of the scene at the Sunrise Store, tapes of the 911 calls and body camera video of the
whole time police were on Sunset Drive.

After reviewing the findings, Newman said he would not be prosecuting the police officers.

Conley and his partner in the investigation, Special Agent Matthew Wade, said the state police are
being called in by more local police departments to investigate officer-involved shootings in an
effort to show an impartial investigation is taking place.

One tool they said is very helpful in those investigations are the body cameras many department
now have.

"T hey pay for themselves," Conley noted.

Newman said the release of the initial body camera video showed exactly how things played out.

"Danville is ahead of the curve with body cameras," he said, noting the cameras tracked the
incident from the officers' arrival to "the unfortunate shooting."

"We're being open," he said. "We're not covering anything up."

© Copyrig ht 2018, The News & Advance, Lynchburg , VA

 
Two officers identified in fatal Danville shooting - Danville Register &
Bee (VA) - April 11, 2018
April 11, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | Ceillie Simkiss

T wo Danville police officers shot at Juan Markee Jones
arms outstretched following a tense confrontation early Sunday — one officer with two years on
the force and the other with five years.

Juan Markee Jones  when he suddenly whipped around with his

As is procedure during officer-involved shootings in the city, the Danville Police Department
released the names of the two officers on Wednesday. Officer Christopher S. Simpkins began
working for the department on Dec. 1, 2012, and Officer David J. Branch began on March 1, 2016.
Neither have served with other departments, city police have confirmed.

Both officers will remain on administrative leave until the investigation is completed.

Jones, a 25-year-old black man from Danville, was shot twice in the chest, Dr. Sara Ohanessian,
with the Roanoke Medical Examiner's Office, confirmed to T he Associated Press. She said that her
office was conducting a toxicology report that is not yet completed.

It is not known if both officers shot Jones — city police referred the question to Virginia State
Police, which is investigating the incident. Requests for verification were not returned by the end of
business Wednesday.

Jones' cause of death was a gunshot wound to the chest, Ohanessian confirmed to the Register &
Bee.

He was likely unarmed — no weapons were found at the scene, state police have confirmed.

T he incident has placed Simpkins and Branch — both white men — into a national, and divisive,
narrative involving the deaths of unarmed black men at the hands of police officers, as well as the
protests that followed.

T hat narrative includes Stephon Clark, an unarmed black man who was fatally shot in March by
police in Sacramento, California, and stretches back the shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson,
Missouri, in 2014.

And as with other shootings, protests erupted. T he first came early Sunday outside SOVAH
Health-Danville, where Jones was pronounced dead. T he next came Monday, as more than 100
people marched on Danville's city hall carrying signs and chanting slogan calling for justice.

By Tuesday afternoon, Danville Police Chief Scott Booth released one angle of the body cam
footage to the media in an effort to curtail rumors about the shooting.

T he roughly eight-minute video begins when police arrive at 205 Sunset Drive, where Jones is
observed with a woman claiming that he assaulted her.

Another officer arrives on the scene, and asks if the man is armed.

"I don't know," an officer replies.

Jones stays in his car, ignoring commands to turn it off, get out, and show his hands. Instead, Jones
drives his car into the brush-filled, wooded area at the end of the cul-de-sac. Officers chase him
down.

Partially surrounded, Jones gets out of the vehicle, but does not show officers his hands. He stands
with his back to his car and his left side toward the officers. His left hand is at his side and his right
hand invisible to officers.

An officer holds a Taser and fires in an attempt to stun Jones. It doesn't work — because of the
brush, only one of the two prongs fired from the pistol-like device hit Jones, meaning there is not a
full circuit connected to him to deliver an electric shock.

Seconds later, Jones whirls around with his hands outstretched at chest level. Gunshots are heard
and Jones drops.

Small protests continued outside Danville city hall Wednesday evening. T his one had two dozen
black teenagers and young adults sitting on the stairs of the building, filling out a form to hold a
community gathering at Ballou Park.

One girl held aloft a sign that said "Pray for our city."

Jade Buskin was in charge of filling out the form, with guidance from several police officers. One
officer brought lollipops out for the children that were there with their parents.

"T his event isn't just about Juan," Buskin said. "It's about the entire community."

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 
Forum for City Council candidates centers on crime - Danville Register
& Bee (VA) - April 10, 2018
April 10, 2018 | Danville Register & Bee (VA) | ​John Crane

Violent crime, Sunday's officer-involved fatal shooting of a young black man, and relations
between the police department and the community dominated a Danville City Council candidate
forum Tuesday night.

T he body-camera video of the shooting that killed 25-year-old Juan Markee Jones
Juan Markee Jones , which was
released by Danville Police Chief Scott Booth on T uesday, came up during the forum at Alpha &
Omega Solid Foundation Church of Worship on Kemper Road in Danville.

"I watched that video," said City Council candidate Sheila Baynes. "It moved me to the bottom of
my heart. I felt for that family."

Five candidates are vying for four seats on council. Vice Mayor Alonzo Jones, Gary Miller and James
Buckner are running for re-election. Baynes and former councilman Adam T omer are also running.
Mayor John Gilstrap, whose seat is also up for grabs, is not seeking re-election.

T he forum was moderated by Jessica Robinson of StarNews. T he second half of the three-hour
forum included Danville School Board candidates.

T he city has a new police chief and everyone must give him a chance, Baynes pointed out.

"We need to give him an opportunity to see if he can make change," she said. Booth replaced Philip
Broadfoot, who retired at the end of 2017.

Alonzo Jones, when asked, said he did not support all of the police department's initiatives to fight
crime "because we're not there yet." He had good words for the new police chief.

"He's trying to be transparent," Jones said. "He's trying to be open."

He pointed out that Booth talked to citizens in the middle of Monday's protest to try to keep
people calm.

"We have a good police chief, we really do," Jones said.

Adding that "we can't do things the same old way," Jones said people in the community are hurting.

Miller said he disagreed with Jones regarding the police force.

"We have a good police force, we have a good police chief," Miller said.

Jones told Miller he never said he didn't support police officers, but reiterated that he liked some of
the department's initiatives but not all of them.

It is important that community members help out the city's police officers, Miller said.

"If we don't help the police, we never get anybody apprehended," he said, adding that some
murders are not solved because witnesses won't talk.

"We need to build trust," Miller said. "If we don't control the crime, economic development will go
down the tubes."

Buckner also praised Booth and said he would do great things in the community.

"He believes strongly in transparency, which is something we haven't had in a long time," Buckner
said.

City Council's job is to keep Danville's citizens safe, Buckner said.

"Everything that happens in this community deeply affects every one of us," he said. "My prayer is
that everybody's safe, that we won't get a terrible message in the middle of the night."

T omer said he got to know Broadfoot, the previous police chief, during his previous stint on City
Council.

"I thought there was a change needed," T omer said. "Back in 2014, change was kind of slow to
move. I definitely think the city manager and the City Council are going in the right direction."

T he only way to fight the violent crime problem is through trust; police need to trust the
community and the community needs to trust the police, T omer said.

"If we do not control the violent crime, the city will not flourish," he said, adding that it affects
economic development, the River District, and schools.

"It's a cancer we have to root out," T omer said.

Council members also praised Booth for getting out in the community and knocking on doors to
talk to citizens.

Community engagement with the department is needed, Jones said. He and Gilstrap went to Juan
Juan
M arkee Jones's mother's house.
M arkee Jones

"It hurts my heart," Jones said of the fatal shooting.

Building relationships among citizens and with police is important, Baynes said. Citizens need to be
able to go to the police chief with any concerns they may have, she said.

Police should treat community members with respect and dignity, and community members

should treat police with respect and dignity, Baynes said.

© Copyrig ht 2018, Danville Register & Bee, Danville, VA

 
Protest in southern Virginia follows a fatal - Free Lance-Star, The
(Fredericksburg, VA) - April 10, 2018 - page 7A
April 10, 2018 | Free Lance-Star, The (Fredericksburg, VA) | Page 7A

DANVILLE-Protesters have rallied outside a municipal building in southern Virginia after the fatal
shooting of a man police say had turned on officers in "a threatening manner."

T he Danville Register & Bee reports officers in Danville responded to a reported domestic assault
early Sunday and fatally shot 25-year-old Juan Markee Jones
Juan Markee Jones . A police statement says Jones
initially fled in a car as officers approached, failed to heed police commands to exit the vehicle.
Police say he "turned" on officers after they tried to use a stun gun, leading to the shooting.

T hose rallying outside Danville's Municipal Building on Monday afternoon chanted: "We want
justice, we want peace."

In a statement earlier, Danville Police Chief Scott Booth cautioned against a rush to judgment.

T he races of those involved weren't immediately disclosed.

© Copyrig ht 2018, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg , VA

 

Man dead after officer-involved shooting - Corpus Christi Caller-Times
(TX) - May 4, 2018 - page A9
May 4, 2018 | Corpus Christi Caller-Times (TX) | Alexandria Rodriguez | Page A9

A 28-year-old man is dead after a Jim Wells County Sheriff's Deputy shot him when he threatened
authorities with a military-type knife.

Jim Wells County Sheriff Danny Bueno said deputies responded to a call from a ranch on Highway
359, just north of Sandia about 10:30 a.m. T hursday. When deputies arrived they saw a 28-year-old
man swinging an ax around, he said.

"He threatened to kill himself or anyone who got close," Bueno said, adding that SWAT  was called.
"He barricaded himself in his house and came out with cuts to his wrists."

T he man later came out with a military-type knife and began swinging the knife around, Bueno
said.

One of the deputies fell back as the man attempted to stab him, he added.

"He threw the knife and it hit an officer's leg. T hat's when he was shot," Bueno said.

"(Medics) arrived and did CPR. We called Halo Flight."

A Justice of the Peace arrived and pronounced the man – identified as Sean Louis Justin

Sean Louis Justin – dead.

Bueno later went to the justice of the peace's office and spoke with Justin's parents to explain what
happened.

T he officer who shot Justin was placed on administrative leave with pay as per protocol.

"T he officers did what they had to do to protect themselves," Bueno said.

Corpus Christi Police Department's Bomb Squad also assisted in the incident. Bomb squad officers
entered the home and found gun powder and ammunition in the home, Bueno said.

T he Texas Rangers are investigating the incident.

© 2018 Journal Media Group

 
A man who was shot by a Fayetteville police - Fayetteville Observer,
The (NC) - July 4, 2018 - page A4
July 4, 2018 | Fayetteville Observer, The (NC) | Rodger Mullen and Nancy McCleary Staff writers | Article |
Page A4

A man who was shot by a Fayetteville police officer after stabbing a pregnant woman at an
apartment off Raeford Road has died.

Lemuel B unn
Lemuel B unn, 40, of Roanoke Rapids, died of his injuries Tuesday evening at Cape Fear Valley
Medical Center, said Sgt. Shawn Strepay, a police spokesman.

T he woman, Stephanie Williams, 34, of the 800 block of Greenleaf Drive in the T reetop
Apartments, is in stable condition at the same hospital. Williams remains at Cape Fear Valley
Medical Center and is currently stable.T he condition of the unborn child is not known, a police
release said.

Police released additional details of the incident in a release in a press release on Tuesday night.
T he department was also preparing to release to the public a 911 call made by Williams. as well as
the 911 call, Tuesday night.

Police Chief Gina Hawkins said at a news conference Tuesday morning that officers responded at
9:08 a.m. to the 911 call from Williams.

"She was being held in her apartment against her will, stabbed numerous times," Hawkins said.

When officers arrived, the woman was still on the phone with the 911 operator.

"She (Williams) could hear the officers knocking on the door, and she started screaming at that
point,'' Hawkins said.

T he officers forced their way into the apartment and found Williams, bleeding from her wounds,
lying on a bed, the updated release said. Bunn had one arm around Williams' neck and was holding
a knife, according to police.

Officers told him multiple times to drop the knife, but Bunn refused, police state.

"At that time, an officer discharged their firearm, striking Bunn, and stopping the immediate threat
to Williams’ life,” the release said.

T he officer, who was not injured, has not been identified, but has been placed on administrative
duty, which is departmental procedure.

T he Police Department’s policy regarding identifying an officer who is involved in a shooting says,

“T he name of the involved officer will be released, through a media release by the PIO’s office, at a
practical time after 48 hours of the initial incident notification.”

T he State Bureau of Investigation is looking into the shooting, which is standard procedure for any
officer-involved shooting.

T he Police Department’s Internal Affairs Unit is conducting an internal investigation to ensure all
departmental policies and procedures were followed, the release said.

“T here is nothing happening right now as far as disciplinary action,” Hawkins said. “Our response
was on-point, was definitely on-point.”

Asked Tuesday morning how the officer was doing, Hawkins said, “If you can imagine being
involved in a shooting, it takes a toll on you.”

Once the SBI has turned over its findings to the Cumberland County District Attorney, a press
conference will be held, the policy says.

Access to the building where the shooting happened and others in the same area was restricted on
T uesday as the incident was being investigated. Crime scene tape marked off the parking area,
encompassing four buildings.

Officers escorted residents living in the affected buildings to their homes. Several police vehicles
were in the parking lot.

Residents and business owners in the area expressed shock at the incident, but one said there has
been trouble there before.

Leslie McDonald, a home health nurse at Primary Choice Inc. on Raeford Road, said she called the
police last week after seeing a man with a knife.

“We get a lot of homeless people and people who wander through here, so it’s not surprising,”
McDonald said. “You would hope that something like that wouldn’t happen around here.”

Reggie “Rambo” White, who lives in another part of the Treetop complex, called it a “quiet place.”

“T here’s no excitement going on,” White said. “I never heard of anything like that.”

Josh Baez, who also lives in T reetop, said a friend of his lives near the apartment where the
stabbing and shooting incident happened and knew the people involved.

“He said they were pretty calm,” Baez said. “He didn’t think they would get in trouble.”

T he department’s last fatal officer-involved shooting occurred in December 2016 on the 800 block
of Bedrock Drive in the Ponderosa neighborhood, off Santa Fe Drive near Ponderosa Elementary
School.

Staff writer Rodger Mullen can be reached at rmullen@fayobserver.com or 486-3561.

Staff writer Nancy McCleary can be reached at nmccleary@fayobserver.com or 486-3568.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Fayetteville (N.C.) Observer

 
Police officer says moment of valor not without - Fayetteville Observer,
The (NC) - June 7, 2019 - page A6
June 7, 2019 | Fayetteville Observer, The (NC) | Article | Page A6

Sgt. Charles Cochran never will forget Stephanie Williams, and Stephanie Williams never will forget
Sgt. Charles Cochran.

He is a city police officer, and has been for 16 years.

Williams, 35, was the pregnant woman who was held hostage by her boyfriend on the morning of
July 3, 2018, at Treetop Garden Apartments on Greenleaf Drive, off Raeford Road and near Skibo
Road.

“I've been stabbed,” Williams would tell a 911 dispatcher. "He said he is going to kill me and him.”

Once inside the apartment, Cochran and fellow officers found Williams in her bedroom bleeding,
and Lemuel B unn
of the woman he had been holding hostage for 12 hours.

Lemuel B unn, 40, of Roanoke Rapids, holding a knife and wrapping his arm around the neck

Cochran and those other officers ordered Bunn to drop his weapon.

“T he phrase 'You will always revert back to your training' has always meant something to me,”
Cochran says, “but it means more to me now than it did at 8 a.m. on July 3, 2018.”

Cochran was a police officer without choice.

A woman's life hung in the balance, as well as the life of her unborn child.

Cochran would end the crime with a single bullet from his revolver, and Bunn would die later that
evening at Cape Fear Valley Medical Center.

"Our response was on-point,” Gina Hawkins, the police chief, later would say. “Definitely on point.”

T oday, Stephanie Williams and her newborn are alive and doing well.

“My family has developed a relationship with her and her family, and she asked me to be the baby’s
godfather on Mother’s Day,” says Cochran, 46, a former 82nd Airborne paratrooper who on May
10 was awarded the Medal of Valor by the Police Department at the Fayetteville Police Foundation
Ball at Highland Country Club. “I can’t put into words what that meant to me and my family.”

T he Medal of Valor is not just any award. It is the highest honor presented by the Fayetteville Police
Department, but one Cochran shares with others.

“As a professional, the award validates the quality of training I’ve received and the greatness of the
individuals that I’ve been surrounded by in my time here at the Fayetteville Police Department,”
Cochran says. “I’ve been blessed to have trained with men and women that didn’t allow me to
settle for average.”

Among them, he says, are the officers with him on July 3, 2018. “Sgt. Kenneth Holland, Officer
Jonathan Covault, Officer Sara Hanson, Officer Shawn Arnold, Officer Joshua Walcott and Officer
Pedro Padilla were with me that day,” Cochran says, “and they all performed very well under a great
deal of stress. I am very proud of them.”

He says, too, that the officers were not alone on that difficult day of protecting and serving.
“Personally, I’m thankful to God, and I know he saw us all through that incident from beginning to
end,” Cochran says. “I don’t make the decision I made as quickly or accurately as I did without
God’s presence. I know it all sounds very cliche, but that’s how it truly is. I’m very thankful.”

As for Stephanie Williams, he says, she has a story to tell.

“She will be a great advocate for domestic violence victims one day, and she deserves so much
credit,” Cochran says about the life he and his fellow officers saved from the throes of a potential
homicide. “She is a tough young lady.”

And something else Cochran wants you to know.

“And the baby,” Cochran says, “is gorgeous.”

T omorrow: “Right place at the right time.”

Columnist Bill Kirby Jr. can be reached at bkirby@fayobserver.com or 910-486-3571.

Copyrig ht 2019, The Fayetteville (N.C.) Observer

 
Man shot by NC police dies; pregnant woman he - Mexico Ledger (MO) -
July 6, 2018 - page A13
July 6, 2018 | Mexico Ledger (MO) | Nancy Mccleary And Rodger Mullen | Page A13

FAYET T EVILLE, N.C. - A man who was shot by a Fayetteville police officer after stabbing a pregnant
woman at an apartment has died.

Lemuel B unn, 40, of Roanoke Rapids, died of his injuries Tuesday evening at Cape Fear Valley
Lemuel B unn
Medical Center, said Sgt. Shawn Strepay, a police spokesman.

T he woman, Stephanie Williams, 34, of Fayetteville, is in stable condition at the same hospital. T he
condition of the unborn child is not known, a police release said.

Police released additional details of the incident in a press release on Tuesday night. T he
department was also preparing to release to the public a 911 call made by Williams.

Police Chief Gina Hawkins said at a morning news conference that officers responded at 9:08 a.m.
to the 911 call from Williams.

"She was being held in her apartment against her will, stabbed numerous times," Hawkins said.

When officers arrived, the woman was still on the phone with the 911 operator.

"(Williams) could hear the officers knocking on the door, and she started screaming at that point,"
Hawkins said.

T he officers forced their way into the apartment and found Williams, bleeding from her wounds,
lying on a bed, the updated release said. Bunn had one arm around Williams' neck and was holding
a knife, according to police.

Officers told him multiple times to drop the knife, but Bunn refused, police state.

"At that time, an officer discharged their firearm, striking Bunn, and stopping the immediate threat
to Williams' life," the release said.

T he officer, who was not injured, has not been identified but has been placed on administrative
duty, which is departmental procedure.

T he police department's policy regarding identifying an officer who is involved in a shooting says,
"T he name of the involved officer will be released, through a media release by the PIO's office, at a
practical time after 48 hours of the initial incident notification."

T he State Bureau of Investigation is looking into the shooting, which is standard procedure for any

officer-involved shooting.

T he police department's Internal Affairs Unit is conducting an internal investigation to ensure all
departmental policies and procedures were followed, the release said.

"T here is nothing happening right now as far as disciplinary action," Hawkins said. "Our response
was on-point, was definitely on-point."

Asked Tuesday morning how the officer was doing, Hawkins said, "If you can imagine being
involved in a shooting, it takes a toll on you."

Once the SBI has turned over its findings to the Cumberland County District Attorney, a press
conference will be held, the policy says.

Most residents shocked

Access to the building where the shooting happened and others in the same area was restricted on
T uesday as the incident was being investigated. Crime scene tape marked off the parking area,
encompassing four buildings.

Officers escorted residents living in the affected buildings to their homes.

Several police vehicles were in the parking lot.

Residents and business owners in the area expressed shock at the incident, but one said there has
been trouble there before.

Leslie McDonald, a home health nurse at Primary Choice Inc., said she called the police last week
after seeing a man with a knife.

"We get a lot of homeless people and people who wander through here, so it's not surprising,"
McDonald said. "You would hope that something like that wouldn't happen around here."

Reggie "Rambo" White, who lives in another part of the complex, called it a "quiet place."

"T here's no excitement going on," White said. "I never heard of anything like that."

Josh Baez, who also lives in the complex, said a friend of his lives near the apartment where the
stabbing and shooting incident happened and knew the people involved.

"He said they were pretty calm," Baez said. "He didn't think they would get in trouble."

T he department's last fatal officer-involved shooting occurred in December 2016, near Ponderosa
Elementary School.

Police forced their way into the home to find Mark Anthony Hicks, 31, standing over the body of his
girlfriend, Amanda Lena Williams, 37, with a knife in his hand. Williams had been stabbed to death.

Officers told him repeatedly to drop the knife, but he refused to do so, and a Taser failed to stun
him.

As officers began to try and handcuff Hicks, he lunged at them with the knife and was fatally shot.

Copyrig ht 2018 Mexico Ledg er. All Rights Reserved.

 
Fayetteville police have identified the officer - Fayetteville Observer,
The (NC) - July 6, 2018 - page A4
July 6, 2018 | Fayetteville Observer, The (NC) | Greg Barnes Staff writer | Article | Page A4

Fayetteville police have identified the officer who fatally shot a man Tuesday while he held a knife
to his pregnant girlfriend.

T he officer, Sgt. Charles Cochran, 45, has been with the Fayetteville Police Department since
November 2003. Cochran has been placed on administrative duty while the State Bureau of
Investigation looks into the shooting. Administrative duty is standard procedure whenever police
are involved in shootings. Cochran is assigned to the Cross Creek District.

Police say officers responding to a 911 call from Stephanie Williams, 34, forced their way into her
apartment Tuesday and found Lemuel B unn
his arm around the neck of his bleeding girlfriend. Police say Bunn was shot after repeatedly
refusing orders from police.

Lemuel B unn, 40, of Roanoke Rapids holding a knife and wrapping

Sgt. Shawn Strepay, a police spokesman, said Williams and her unborn child were in good condition
T hursday afternoon, an upgrade from earlier reports of stable.

Much of what happened immediately before the shooting was captured on an emotional, 22-
minute 911 recording. T he recording ends after police force their way into Williams’ home in
T reetop Garden Apartments on Greenleaf Drive, off Raeford Road near Skibo Road.

“I’ve been stabbed,’’ Williams tells the dispatcher at the beginning of the audio recording, around
9:08 a.m. T uesday.

Williams moans softly as she tells the dispatcher that the stab wound is on her left side and that
her boyfriend is in another area of the apartment.

T he dispatcher instructs Williams on how to reduce the bleeding and continually tells her to keep
talking until help arrives.

Williams tells the dispatcher that her boyfriend has been holding her at knifepoint in her bedroom
since around 7 or 8 p.m. Monday.

She describes the weapon as a kitchen knife.

“I have help on the way. T hey will be there as soon as they can. T hey just have to come in safely,”
the dispatcher assures Williams.

Williams begins to moan more frequently but seems to remain calm. She tells the dispatcher that
her boyfriend has come back into the bedroom.

“He said he is going to kill me and him.”

“Does he have a weapon on him right now?” the dispatcher asks.

“Yes Ma’am.”

“What kind?”

“Just the knife.”

A loud knocking sound can be heard.

Williams tells the dispatcher that her boyfriend did not go to answer the door.

“Is he going to open the door?” the dispatcher asks.

“No.”

Williams can be heard starting to cry.

“Why are you crying?” the dispatcher asks.

“I’m just scared.”

T he audio tape captures another loud knocking sound.

Williams gives the dispatcher directions to the bedroom she is being held in. T he boyfriend hasn’t
said anything that is audible.

Police enter and tell the man to drop the knife.

Williams cries hysterically as the 911 recording comes to an end before a shot is heard.

Strepay, the police spokesman, said Cochran was the only officer to fire at Bunn, who was struck
by the only round fired.

Police Chief Gina Hawkins spoke about the shooting at a news conference T uesday.

“T here is nothing happening right now as far as disciplinary action,” Hawkins said. “Our response
was on-point, was definitely on-point.”

Strepay said police have not determined a motive for the attack. He said he didn’t have information
on whether Bunn was the father of the unborn child.

Attempts to reach relatives of Williams and Bunn were unsuccessful.

Bunn was convicted in 1994 of felony breaking and entering and larceny, state prison records
show.

He was sentenced to a maximum of 10 years in prison.

He was convicted again in 1998 of being a felon in possession of a firearm.

He also had been convicted of drug crimes.

Staff writer Greg Barnes can be reached at gbarnes@fayobserver.com or 910-486-3525.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Fayetteville (N.C.) Observer

 
No updates on stabbed woman - Fayetteville Observer, The (NC) - July 5,
2018 - page A10
July 5, 2018 | Fayetteville Observer, The (NC) | Article | Page A10

Fayetteville police said they had no updates Wednesday on the condition of a pregnant woman
stabbed at an apartment off Raeford Road.

Stephanie Williams, 34, was listed in stable condition after the attack Tuesday at Treetop Garden
Apartments. Her attacker, 40-year-old Lemuel B unn
Lemuel Bunn of Roanoke Rapids, was shot by police and
later died.

On Wednesday, a nursing supervisor at Cape Fear Valley Medical Center said Williams was not on a
list of patients whose conditions the hospital can release.

Officer Asia Cannon, a spokeswoman for Fayetteville police, said she could not provide any updates
on the case.

Officers responding to a 911 call from Williams forced their way into the apartment and found her
bleeding. Bunn, holding her neck with a knife, refused orders from police, according to the
department. An officer then shot Bunn.

Cannon said she expects the officer's name will be released this week. T he officer is on
administrative duty as State Bureau of Investigation reviews the shooting.

Michael Futch

Copyrig ht 2018, The Fayetteville (N.C.) Observer

 
Knife-wielding man shot by police dies - Officers - Fayetteville
Observer, The (NC) - July 4, 2018 - page A1
July 4, 2018 | Fayetteville Observer, The (NC) | Rodger Mullen and Nancy McCleary Staff writers | Article |
Page A1

A man who was shot by a Fayetteville police officer after stabbing a pregnant woman at an
apartment off Raeford Road has died.

Lemuel B unn
Lemuel B unn, 40, of Roanoke Rapids, died of his injuries Tuesday evening at Cape Fear Valley
Medical Center, said Sgt. Shawn Strepay, a police spokesman.

T he woman, Stephanie Williams, 34, of the 800 block of Greenleaf Drive in the T reetop
Apartments, is in stable condition at the same hospital. Williams remains at Cape Fear Valley
Medical Center and is currently stable.T he condition of the unborn child is not known, a police
release said.

Police released additional details of the incident in a release in a press release on Tuesday night.
T he department was also preparing to release to the public a 911 call made by Williams. as well as
the 911 call, Tuesday night.

Police Chief Gina Hawkins said at a news conference Tuesday morning that officers responded at
9:08 a.m. to the 911 call from Williams.

"She was being held in her apartment against her will, stabbed numerous times," Hawkins said.

When officers arrived, the woman was still on the phone with the 911 operator.

"She (Williams) could hear the officers knocking on the door, and she started screaming at that
point,'' Hawkins said.

T he officers forced their way into the apartment and found Williams, bleeding from her wounds,
lying on a bed, the updated release said. Bunn had one arm around Williams' neck and was holding
a knife, according to police.

Officers told him multiple times to drop the knife, but Bunn refused, police state.

"At that time, an officer discharged their firearm, striking Bunn, and stopping the immediate threat
to Williams’ life,” the release said.

T he officer, who was not injured, has not been identified, but has been placed on administrative
duty, which is departmental procedure.

T he Police Department’s policy regarding identifying an officer who is involved in a shooting says,

“T he name of the involved officer will be released, through a media release by the PIO’s office, at a
practical time after 48 hours of the initial incident notification.”

T he State Bureau of Investigation is looking into the shooting, which is standard procedure for any
officer-involved shooting.

T he Police Department’s Internal Affairs Unit is conducting an internal investigation to ensure all
departmental policies and procedures were followed, the release said.

“T here is nothing happening right now as far as disciplinary action,” Hawkins said. “Our response
was on-point, was definitely on-point.”

Asked Tuesday morning how the officer was doing, Hawkins said, “If you can imagine being
involved in a shooting, it takes a toll on you.”

Once the SBI has turned over its findings to the Cumberland County District Attorney, a press
conference will be held, the policy says.

Access to the building where the shooting happened and others in the same area was restricted on
T uesday as the incident was being investigated. Crime scene tape marked off the parking area,
encompassing four buildings.

Officers escorted residents living in the affected buildings to their homes. Several police vehicles
were in the parking lot.

Residents and business owners in the area expressed shock at the incident, but one said there has
been trouble there before.

Leslie McDonald, a home health nurse at Primary Choice Inc. on Raeford Road, said she called the
police last week after seeing a man with a knife.

“We get a lot of homeless people and people who wander through here, so it’s not surprising,”
McDonald said. “You would hope that something like that wouldn’t happen around here.”

Reggie “Rambo” White, who lives in another part of the Treetop complex, called it a “quiet place.”

“T here’s no excitement going on,” White said. “I never heard of anything like that.”

Josh Baez, who also lives in T reetop, said a friend of his lives near the apartment where the
stabbing and shooting incident happened and knew the people involved.

“He said they were pretty calm,” Baez said. “He didn’t think they would get in trouble.”

T he department’s last fatal officer-involved shooting occurred in December 2016 on the 800 block
of Bedrock Drive in the Ponderosa neighborhood, off Santa Fe Drive near Ponderosa Elementary
School.

Staff writer Rodger Mullen can be reached at rmullen@fayobserver.com or 486-3561.

Staff writer Nancy McCleary can be reached at nmccleary@fayobserver.com or 486-3568.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Fayetteville (N.C.) Observer

 
Pregnant woman's assailant dies from officer's - News & Record
(Greensboro, NC) - July 5, 2018 - page 3A
July 5, 2018 | News & Record (Greensboro, NC) | Tribune News Service | Page 3A

FAYET T EVILLE - A man shot by a police officer after stabbing a pregnant woman at an apartment
off Raeford Road has died.

Lemuel B unn, 40, of Roanoke Rapids died of his injuries Tuesday evening at Cape Fear Valley
Lemuel B unn
Medical Center, said Sgt. Shawn Strepay, a police spokesman.

T he woman, Stephanie Williams, 34, of the 800 block of Greenleaf Drive in the T reetop
Apartments, is in stable condition at the same hospital. T he condition of the unborn child is not
known, police said in a news release.

Police released additional details of the incident in a press release on Tuesday night. T he
department was also preparing to release to the public a 911 call made by Williams.

Police Chief Gina Hawkins said at a morning news conference that officers responded at 9:08 a.m.
to the 911 call from Williams.

"She was being held in her apartment against her will, stabbed numerous times," Hawkins said.

When officers arrived, the woman was still on the phone with the 911 operator.

"She (Williams) could hear the officers knocking on the door, and she started screaming at that
point,'' Hawkins said.

T he officers forced their way into the apartment and found Williams, bleeding from her wounds,
lying on a bed, the updated release said. Bunn had one arm around her neck and was holding a
knife, according to police.

Officers told him multiple times to drop the knife, but Bunn refused, police said. "At that time, an
officer discharged their firearm, striking Bunn, and stopping the immediate threat to Williams' life,"
police said in the release.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Greensboro News & Record

 
Police responding to 911 call use lethal force - Fayetteville Observer,
The (NC) - July 8, 2018 - page D5
July 8, 2018 | Fayetteville Observer, The (NC) | Article | Page D5

Police responding to 911 call use lethal force

What happened: A 40-year-old man named Lemuel B unn
Lemuel Bunn held his pregnant girlfriend in her
Fayetteville apartment for hours, even after he stabbed her. Police answered her 911 call by
breaking in and, when Bunn refused to drop a knife, fatally shooting him, according to Chief Gina
Hawkins.

Why it matters: Hawkins said Tuesday after the incident that it appeared her officers did everything
"on-point." State investigators will review their actions, which is standard in police shootings, and
the officer who fired the shot will remain on administrative duty until then.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Fayetteville (N.C.) Observer

 
Police: Man who stabbed woman dies after officer - Daily Advance, The
(Elizabeth City, NC) - July 5, 2018 - page 3
July 5, 2018 | Daily Advance, The (Elizabeth City, NC) | Page 3

A man who police said they shot because he refused to drop a knife after stabbing a pregnant
woman in a North Carolina home has died from his injuries.

Fayetteville Police spokesman Sgt. Shawn Strepay said 40-year-old Lemuel B unn
around his 34-year-old girlfriend’s neck and was holding a knife when officers arrived about 9 a.m.
T uesday.

Lemuel Bunn had an arm

Strepay said officers demanded Bunn drop the knife several times and one fired when he kept
holding the weapon.

Strepay said in a statement the woman remains in the hospital and the condition of her unborn
child is not known.

T he officer who shot Bunn is on administrative leave as the State Bureau of Investigation
investigates the shooting.

2018 Cooke Communications LLC - The Daily Advance

 


 
OAKLAND >>A man was fatally shot by a BART police officer Wednesday afternoon across from the West Oakland

station after refusing to drop a gun he was holding, authorities said Thursday. 

Oakland police homicide investigators with help from the Alameda County Coroner's Bureau identified the man as

Shaleem Tindle, 28, of Oakland. 

Another man, identified only as an Oakland resident, had been in a struggle with Tindle and was also wounded.

Oakland police, who are the lead investigators in the case, said they are still trying to determine who shot him. 

A woman who identified herself as Laquisha Stanley told reporters at the scene Wednesday night that Tindle had

been arguing with the other man, who she said was a friend of hers, and that he was the one who shot her friend in

The name of the BART officer has not been released. Police said he was wearing a body camera that captured

The shooting happened about 4:41 p.m. Wednesday in the 1400 block of Seventh Street across from the BART

the leg. 

station. 

what happened. 

Police said the BART officer was at the station in full uniform when he heard gunshots and saw the two men

struggling with each other across the street. One of the men was holding a gun, police said. 

The officer went across the street and tried to get the man with the gun to drop the weapon before he shot him,

Oakland police said. The BART officer was not hurt. 

A pistol was recovered at the scene. 

Both wounded men were taken to a hospital where Tindle later died. The other man was treated and released. 

Oakland police, BART police and the Alameda County District Attorney's Office are investigating the shooting. 

Contact Harry Harris at 510-208-6443. 

Credit: Harry Harris, STAFF WRITER 

Illustration 

Caption: PHOTO: Jane Tyska Staff photographer Oakland police investigate a fatal shooting on Seventh and

Chester Streets near the West Oakland BART station on Wednesday. One man was killed and another injured. 
 
 


 
OAKLAND >>A man was fatally shot by a BART police officer Wednesday afternoon across from the West Oakland

station after refusing to drop a gun he was holding, authorities said Thursday. 

Oakland police homicide investigators with help from the Alameda County Coroner's Bureau identified the man as

Shaleem Tindle, 28, of Oakland. 

Another man, identified only as an Oakland resident, had been in a struggle with Tindle and was also wounded.

Oakland police, who are the lead investigators in the case, said they are still trying to determine who shot him. 

A woman who identified herself as Laquisha Stanley told reporters at the scene Wednesday night that Tindle had

been arguing with the other man, whom she said was a friend of hers, and that he was the one who shot her friend

The name of the BART officer has not been released. Police said he was wearing a body camera that captured

The shooting happened about 4:41 p.m. Wednesday in the 1400 block of Seventh Street across from the BART

in the leg. 

what happened. 

station. 

Police said the BART officer was at the station in full uniform when he heard gunshots and saw the two men

struggling with each other across the street. One of the men was holding a gun, police said. 

The officer went across the street and tried to get the man with the gun to drop the weapon before he shot him,

Oakland police said. The BART officer was not hurt. 

A pistol was recovered at the scene. 

Both wounded men were taken to a hospital where Tindle later died. The other man was treated and released. 

Oakland police, BART police and the Alameda County District Attorney's Office are investigating the shooting. 

Contact Harry Harris at 510-208-6443. 

Credit: By Harry Harris, hharris@bayareanewsgroup.com 

Illustration 

Caption: PHOTO: JANE TYSKA STAFF Oakland police investigate a fatal shooting on Seventh and Chester Streets

near the West Oakland BART station on Wednesday. One man was killed and another injured. 
 
 



 
OAKLAND >>Professional boxer Karim Mayfield said his Earth was shaken up, but it wasn't because of the recent

earthquake felt in the Bay Area. 

Through social media posts, Mayfield, 37, a welterweight, said that his little brother Shaleem Tindle, 28, of Oakland,

was the man fatally shot by BART police officers Wednesday afternoon. 

"My heart is aching right now, my little brother Shaleem was just murdered by BART police in West Oakland

yesterday," Mayfield wrote on Thursday. 

two brothers when they were children. 

Since then, Mayfield, of San Francisco, has posted other photos on his Instagram account, including some of the

"My Earth was shook b4 the earthquake last night," Mayfield said. "Rest in Paradise lil bra." 

Police say that Tindle was shot about 4:41 p.m. by BART police across from the West Oakland station on the 1400

block of Seventh Street when he refused to drop a gun. Another man, identified only as an Oakland resident, had

been in a struggle with Tindle and was also wounded. Oakland police, who are lead investigators in the case, said

they are still trying to determine who shot him. 

A woman who identified herself as Laquisha Stanley told reporters at the scene Wednesday night that Tindle had

been arguing with the other man, whom she said was a friend of hers, and that Tindle was the one who shot her

friend in the leg. 

A pistol was recovered at the 

scene. 

Besides Mayfield, other social media has been posted of the incident. One user on Twitter showed a video of the

scene after Tindle was shot. He appeared lying on the ground as police handcuffed another man. A woman who

seemed to know him, hysterical, appeared to try to give him CPR. The video, which was up on Thursday night by

Ebrahim Aseem, has since been removed from his Twitter account. Aseem said his cousin had been shot. 

The name of the BART officer has not been released, but police said he was wearing a body camera that captured

Mayfield participated in the Olympic trials for the 2004 U.S. team, and is the former North American Boxing

Staff writers George Kelly and Harry Harris contributed to this report. Contact Angela Ruggiero at 510-293-2469. 

what happened. 

Organization junior welterweight champion. 

Credit: Angela Ruggiero, STAFF WRITER 

Illustration 

Caption: PHOTO: Oakland police investigate the scene of a fatal shooting on Seventh and Chester streets near the

West Oakland BART station in Oakland on Wednesday. (JANE TYSKA /STAFF) 
 
 

BART RELEASES VIDEO OF POLICE SHOOTING - FAMILY OF - East Bay
Times (CA) - February 22, 2018 - page 1A
February 22, 2018 | East Bay Times (CA) | Angela Ruggiero, aruggiero@bayareanewsgroup.com | Page 1A

OAKLAND >> In BART  police body-camera footage of a deadly officer-involved shooting last
month, released by the agency on Wednesday, three shots are heard as an officer appears to
shoot a man in the back during his last moments.

Shaleem T indle
Shaleem T indle, 28, was killed at 4:41 p.m. Jan. 3 in the 1400 block of Seventh Street across from
the West Oakland BART  station. His family had recently viewed a full version of the body cam video
and had previously leaked to the media a short cellphone clip they captured during the showing.

T he videos do not clearly show Tindle holding a gun, as BART  police have insisted, although police
cautioned it's just one piece of information that should not be taken out of context.

At anews conference late Wednesday afternoon, apparently responding to the family's release of
the shorter video clip, BART  Police Chief Carlos Rojas made the full video public for the first time.
He also affirmed that the BART  officer involved, Joseph Mateu, was back on duty two weeks after
theshooting.

Rojas criticized the leaked version's impact on the ongoing investigation.

"I think it does present problems when we're trying to protect the integrity of the investigation,"
Rojas said. "We do have to remember it is evidence that is graphic and desired by a lot of people to
view. … T he video of just one piece of evidence … it does take the investigation out of context."

T he footage released by BART  police is the full unedited sequence captured by Officer Mateu's
body camera from that day. In the just-over one-minute video, the officer runs to the scene where
he sees two men in a scuffle, repeatedly shouting "Let me see your hands" directed at both men.

T indle has his back to Mateu and was on his knees when he was approached by the officer. T hen
three shots can be heard, and Tindle is seen rolling over on his back, his empty hands in the air, as
he looks over at the officer.

Police said Tindle was shot by Mateu for allegedly refusing to drop a gun. T he other man, who
appears in the video, had been in a struggle with Tindle and also was wounded. He was said to be
shot in the leg, according to witnesses and T indle's family attorney.

In still photos from the released video, BART  officials highlight what appears to be a gun — first in
the other man's hand — and then in the next frame on the ground near Tindle as he rolls over on
his back.

T he chief said authorities believe that the gun may have been in T indle's hands when he was shot,

and then his hands were up and empty after he was shot by the officer.

He asked the public to reserve judgment until the "natural course of the investigation is complete."

Karim Mayfield, T indle's brother and a professional boxer, posted the shorter, 20-second video clip
online with the caption "… leaked footage of my brothers murder, proving that the police and
media lied! My brother was shot in his back unarmed."

An unidentified black object could be seen at T indle's feet, in between him and the other man, in
both the full video and short clip. However, it wasn't identified by authorities on Wednesday.

Oakland police said that the investigation is active and ongoing and would not release any
additional information on Wednesday, including the video, said Officer Johnna Watson.

Last week, his family announced they would be filing a claim against BART  and the officer, seeking
damages for the allegedly wrongful death. T hey also called for the public release of the video and
prosecution by the Alameda County District Attorney's Office against Mateu.

John Burris, the family's attorney, saidthe video did not support the police narrative of what
occurred that day and claims that the police narrative is false. He said Wednesdayhe wasn't aware
that the family even had the short video clip.

He maintainsthe body-camera video footage shows Tindle was unarmed and appeared to be
complying with the officer. T he man had his back to Mateu and was bringing his empty hands into
the air when he was shot, according to Burris.

"He didn't have a basis to just willy-nilly decide to just recklessly shoot somebody without knowing
what in fact that person had done or was doing at the time he shot him," Burris said.

Burris said the officer "didn't have enough information to justify using deadly force."

"T here is no lawful or justifiable reason for Officer Mateu to fire three shots into Shaleem's back,"
Burris said.

T he Alameda County District Attorney's Office is investigating theshooting as is the Oakland Police
Department.

George Kelly contributed to this report. Contact Angela Ruggiero at 510-293-2469.

Copyrig ht © 2018 East Bay Times.

 

 
OAKLAND >>In BART police body-camera footage of a deadly officer-involved shooting last month, released by the

agency on Wednesday, three shots are heard as an officer appears to shoot a man in the back during his last

moments. 

Shaleem Tindle, 28, was killed at 4:41 p.m. Jan. 3 in the 1400 block of Seventh Street across from the West

Oakland BART station. His family had recently viewed a full version of the body cam video and had previously

leaked to the media a short cellphone clip they captured during the showing. 

The videos do not clearly show Tindle holding a gun, as BART police have insisted, although police cautioned it's

just one piece of information that should not be taken out of context. 

At anews conference late Wednesday afternoon, apparently responding to the family's release of the shorter video

clip, BART Police Chief Carlos Rojas made the full video public for the first time. He also affirmed that the BART

officer involved, Joseph Mateu, was back on duty two weeks after theshooting. 

Rojas criticized the leaked version's impact on the ongoing investigation. 

"I think it does present problems when we're trying to protect the integrity of the investigation," Rojas said. "We do

have to remember it is evidence that is graphic and desired by a lot of people to view. The video of just one piece

of evidence it does take the investigation out of context." 

The footage released by BART police is the full unedited sequence captured by Officer Mateu's body camera from

that day. In the just-over one-minute video, the officer runs to the scene where he sees two men in a scuffle,

repeatedly shouting "Let me see your hands" directed at both men. 

Tindle has his back to Mateu and was on his knees when he was approached by the officer. Then three shots can

be heard, and Tindle is seen rolling over on his back, his empty hands in the air, as he looks over at the officer. 

Police said Tindle was shot by Mateu for allegedly refusing to drop a gun. The other man, who appears in the video,

had been in a struggle with Tindle and also was wounded. He was said to be shot in the leg, according to

witnesses and Tindle's family attorney. 

In still photos from the released video, BART officials highlight what appears to be a gun first in the other man's

hand and then in the next frame on the ground near Tindle as he rolls over on his back. 

The chief said authorities believe that the gun may have been in Tindle's hands when he was shot, and then his

hands were up and empty after he was shot by the officer. 

He asked the public to reserve judgment until the "natural course of the investigation is complete." 

Karim Mayfield, Tindle's brother and a professional boxer, posted the shorter, 20-second video clip online with the

caption " leaked footage of my brothers murder, proving that the police and media lied! My brother was shot in his

back unarmed." 

An unidentified black object could be seen at Tindle's feet, in between him and the other man, in both the full video

and short clip. However, it wasn't identified by authorities on Wednesday. 

Oakland police said that the investigation is active and ongoing and would not release any additional information

on Wednesday, including the video, said Officer Johnna Watson. 

Last week, his family announced they would be filing a claim against BART and the officer, seeking damages for

the allegedly wrongful death. They also called for the public release of the video and prosecution by the Alameda

County District Attorney's Office against Mateu. 

John Burris, the family's attorney, saidthe video did not support the police narrative of what occurred that day and

claims that the police narrative is false. He said Wednesdayhe wasn't aware that the family even had the short

He maintainsthe body-camera video footage shows Tindle was unarmed and appeared to be complying with the

officer. The man had his back to Mateu and was bringing his empty hands into the air when he was shot, according

"He didn't have a basis to just willy-nilly decide to just recklessly shoot somebody without knowing what in fact

that person had done or was doing at the time he shot him," Burris said. 

Burris said the officer "didn't have enough information to justify using deadly force." 

"There is no lawful or justifiable reason for Officer Mateu to fire three shots into Shaleem's back," Burris said. 

The Alameda County District Attorney's Office is investigating theshooting as is the Oakland Police Department. 

George Kelly contributed to this report. Contact Angela Ruggiero at 510-293-2469. 

Credit: By Angela Ruggiero, aruggiero@bayareanewsgroup.com 

Caption: PHOTO: BART A frame from a body camera video shows an encounter with a BART officer and Shaleem

video clip. 

to Burris. 

Illustration 

Tindle in January. 
 
 


 
OAKLAND >>The name of a BART officer involved in a fatal shooting last week was released Wednesday by

authorities. 

BART Officer Joseph Mateu fatally shot Shaleem Tindle, 28, of Oakland near the West Oakland BART station on

Jan. 3, according to Oakland police, who are lead investigators on the case. 

Mateu, who is on paid leave during the investigation, was initially hired as a community service assistant in May

2003, according to a BART spokeswoman. He was sworn in as a police officer in November 2005 and promoted to

senior police officer in January 2010. 

was also released Wednesday. 

Tindle was shot after refusing to drop a gun he was holding, police said. A photo of a gun recovered at the scene

Tindle's family has retained attorney John Burris, who said Wednesday he is investigating whether Tindle's civil

rights were violated. Burris viewed Tindle's body and said there are wounds on his upper right chest, lower right hip

and up to three smaller wounds on his back. 

"I'm trying to determine which are entry wounds and which are exit wounds," the attorney said.The Alameda County

Coroner's Office will determine the cause of death and where Tindle was struck by gunfire, authorities said. 

Another man, identified only as an Oakland resident, had been in a struggle with Tindle and was also wounded.

Oakland police said they are still trying to determine who shot him. 

The shooting happened about 4:41 p.m. in the 1400 block of Seventh Street, across from the BART station. 

Police said the BART officer was at the station in full uniform when he heard gunshots and saw the two men

struggling with each other across the street. One of the men held a gun, police said. 

The officer went across the street and tried to get the man with the gun to drop the weapon before the shooting,

Oakland police said. The BART officer was not hurt. 

Both wounded men were taken to a hospital where Tindle later died. The other man was treated and released. 

Staff writer George Kelly contributed to this story. Contact Harry Harris at 510-208-6443 and David DeBolt at 510-

Caption: Staff file photo Oakland police investigate the scene of a fatal shooting at Seventh and Chester streets

near the West Oakland BART station on Jan. 3. One man was killed and another injured in a BART officer-involved

208-6453. 

Illustration 

Credit: Harry Harris and David DeBolt. Staff writers 

shooting, authorities said. 
 
 

Family seeks murder charge for BART cop - San Francisco Chronicle
(CA) - February 14, 2018 - page D1
February 14, 2018 | San Francisco Chronicle (CA) | Sarah Ravani | Page D1

T he family of an Oakland man shot and killed by a BART  police officer last month say body camera
footage proves their relative was murdered.

Yolanda Banks was joined by dozens of people Tuesday afternoon near the West Oakland BART
Station, where her 28-year-old son, Sahleem T indle, was killed by a transit police officer on the
afternoon of Jan. 3. She and family members, as well as civil rights attorney John Burris, called on
authorities to release body camera footage of the incident and hold Officer Joseph Mateu
accountable.

"After a while you cry and you cry, the tears have to come out because you have to feel the pain,"
Banks said. "I feel the pain."

Burris, who is representing the family in a civil suit, said video footage shown to the family by
Oakland police proves that there was no firearm in T indle's hands when he was shot three times in
the back.

T he incident first started when Tindle and an unidentified man began wrestling with each other
across the street from the BART  station, Burris said. T he two men were "hugging each other," he
said, with one person in a headlock and the other in a waist-lock when the officer ran up to the
station, which is near the intersection of Seventh and Chester streets.

Authorities said Tindle ignored commands to drop a handgun, forcing Mateu to fire his weapon.

Burris made arrangements for the family to privately view the body camera footage through the
Oakland Police Department. Banks, 58, told T he Chronicle that the footage left her "disturbed" with
"so many things running through my mind."

She added, "What I'm going to continue to feel is my heart tearing. You wouldn't want no one to
feel that, no mother or father to endure that."

Burris said the video included audio of the officer saying, "Show me your hands, show me hands."

"Within moments," Burris said, Mateu shot Tindle in the back three times. T he officer "could not
have seen a weapon of any kind," Burris said.

A handgun was recovered from the scene, authorities said, but Burris has challenged T indle's
possession of the weapon.

Laquisha Stanley told T he Chronicle just moments after the shooting that she was at a nearby

doughnut shop when she noticed her friend get into a dispute with T indle, a man he apparently
knew. T he pair argued as they walked down the street, she said, before Tindle allegedly shot
Stanley's friend in the leg.

Burris argued that Mateu did not have enough evidence to know whether Tindle had a gun before
intervening.

"Did the officer have sufficient evidence to justify the shooting?" Burris said. "He didn't. T hat's the
facts."

T indle was at the BART  station to meet his girlfriend and two young children, Burris said.

"We want justice, yes we do," said T indle's father, Yhshky. "I'm still lost for words. I don't know
what to do."

In addition to calling for Mateu to be charged with murder, T indle's family is pursuing a civil suit
against the officer and the BART  Police Department.

Mateu was hired by BART  as a community service assistant in 2003 and became a police officer in
2005, said Alicia T rost, a spokeswoman for BART . He was promoted to the rank of senior officer
in January 2010.

BART  issued a statement Tuesday afternoon noting that "any loss of life is tragic," and both the
transit police and the Oakland Police Department are investigating the events of Jan. 3. T he transit
agency also touted reforms implemented in recent years, including an independent police auditor
and a BART  police citizen review board.

At the conclusion of the investigations and a review by the Alameda County district attorney's
office, BART  said, the agency will release the body camera footage.

“What I’m going to continue to feel is my heart tearing. You wouldn’t want no one to feel that.”

Yolanda Banks, mother

(c) San Francisco Chronicle 2018

 

 
Publication: Oak Leaf, Santa Rosa Junior College, Santa Rosa CA. 

Ricardo pinell (left) connects with a left hok against Enrique Gallegos (right) in the first round of their bout.  

Matthew Wreden  

Matthew Wreden  

Hotel.  

Ricardo pinell (left) connects with a left hok against Enrique Gallegos (right) in the first round of their bout.  

Ian Macgregor, Deputy Sports EditorApril 17, 2018 Share on FacebookShare on TwitterShare via Email Close Modal

Window Hang on for a minute...we're trying to find some more stories you might like. Close Close Modal Window

Email This Story Send email to this addressEnter Your NameAdd a comment hereVerificationSend Email Cancel  

Karim Mayfield had a goal in mind when he put on the Battle in the Ballroom April 7 at the San Francisco Fairmont

“I’m just looking to put on a good show and get as much media coverage for my brother as I can,” Mayfield said.  

Mayfield’s brother, Shaleem Tindle, was shot and killed by BART police in Oakland on Jan. 3. Tindle was 28.

Mayfield and his brand “Hard Hitta Promotions” put on a show in his honor. The card featured five fights, four of

The crowd was electric from the start. The audience was treated to quite a show, as the night got off to an

which ended in knockouts.  

emphatic start in the first fight.  

Andres Salas vs. Tamis Long   

San Francisco-based fighter Andres Salas, took on  Inglewood, California’s Tamis Long, in a heavyweight battle of

North vs. South. Salas poured it on from the start, throwing combinations and pummeling his opponent. The

referee had no choice but to stop the fight after just over a minute, awarding Salas with a TKO victory.  

Salas improved to 2-0 in his professional career with his victory, and paid his respect to Long after the fight. “He’s

durable, he’s tough,” Salas said. “My big thing was to come in there and let him know what’s up, and that’s what

happened.”  

Lennard Davis vs. Julio Rizo  

round.  

Ricardo Pinell vs. Enrique Gallegos  

The second fight featured junior welterweights. Lennard Davis represented Oakland and took on Julio Rizo, from

San Jose. The first round was back and forth, with both fighters dealing heavy. Davis stunned Rizo with a massive

uppercut at the end of the round, and Rizo was clearly rattled. Davis kept attacking throughout the second round,

and the referee stopped the fight and awarded him a TKO victory with just under 10 seconds left in the second

The third fight featured the hardest hit of the evening, as Ricardo Pinell uncorked a right hook that knocked Enrique

Gallegos to his knees at the beginning of the second round. The bay area native Pinell won the lightweight fight

over his Oregon-based opponent via TKO and had the crowd on their feet the whole time. A “justice for Shaleem”

chant broke out in the intermission between the third and fourth fights.  

Sean Gee vs. Willie Shaw  

The penultimate bout featured welterweights Sean Gee and Willie Shaw. Gee hails from Portland, Oregon and drew

the wrath of the crowd who clearly favored the undefeated bay area native Shaw. Many audience members sported

“Will ‘the Thrill’ Shaw” t-shirts and each time Shaw connected with a punch a roar echoed throughout the arena.  

Gee fought defensively, tying Shaw up and clinching whenever he could. Neither fighter pulled away, and they were

clearly winded entering the final round. A minute into the sixth round, Gee dropped his hands, taunting Shaw and

daring him to attack. Shaw obliged, unloading a combination of hooks, jabs and uppercuts. The ref stopped it one

minute and 20 seconds into the round, giving Shaw the victory via TKO.  

Shaw improved to 6-0 in his career with his win. “You just gotta be a technician,” Shaw said. “He can clinch all he

wants, but I could tell he was starting to get frustrated.”  

Karim Mayfield vs. Gaku Takahashi  

The main card pitted the San Francisco native Mayfield against Gaku Takahashi, of Los Angeles. The

welterweights were neck and neck all fight, trading blows and tiring each other out. The fight went the full eight

rounds. After Mayfield threatened to end it early, Takahashi settled in and used his height advantage to sprinkle

jabs in while staying mobile.  

Going into the seventh round, it was tough to discern who was in the lead. Mayfield quickly put any doubts to rest,

connecting with big shots over the top of the taller Takahashi’s defense. The last minute of the eighth round

almost caused a riot, the crowd in full throttle. Both fighters put in their final bids for knockout but the final bell

rang and they retreated to their corners. After deliberation, the judges awarded Mayfield the unanimous decision

victory by scores of 77-74, 77-75 and 77-75.  

Mayfield briefly celebrated his victory but turned his focus towards addressing the crowd. “This is a beautiful

audience, good look,” he said. “All races and all classes of people all in one group.” He kept his speech short and

Inglewood California California Los Angeles California Oregon San Francisco

Company / organization:

Name: Santa Rosa Junior College; NAICS: 611210; Name: Fairmont Hotel; NAICS:

sweet and concluded with a heartfelt tribute to his late brother.  

“I love you little bro, this is all for you,” Mayfield said.  

Credit: Ian Macgregor, Deputy Sports Editor 
 
 

Oakland cops probe fatal shooting by BART officer - San Francisco
Chronicle (CA) - January 5, 2018 - page D1
January 5, 2018 | San Francisco Chronicle (CA) | Jenna Lyons | Page D1

T he man shot and killed by a BART  Police officer has been identified by police as a 28-year-old
Oakland man.

Oakland police provided additional details on a Wednesday evening officer-involved shooting
across from the West Oakland BART  Station, confirming that an on-duty BART  police officer was
Shaleem T indle.
responding to a shooting in the area when he later fired at and killed Shaleem T indle

T indle's relatives mourned his death on social media, including Karim Mayfield, a boxer who has
fought across the country and won the WBO NABO super lightweight title in 2011.

"My Heart Is broken, I lost my little brother Shaleem last night. Please don't ask me I'm I ok,
becoase (sic) I'm obviously not," he posted to Facebook.

T he BART  officer was inside the station when he heard shots about 4:40 p.m., according to the
Oakland Police Department.

T he officer found two men "in a struggle with each other" at Seventh and Chester streets. One
man was armed with a handgun, police said.

"After several commands were given, the officer discharged his firearm striking the man who was
in possession of the handgun," the department said. "He later succumbed to his injuries."

Authorities said a gun was found at the scene.

Witness accounts of the incident were similar. One witness told T he Chronicle that two men were
arguing before shots rang out. Another said she saw one man shoot the other in the leg, which led
a BART  police officer to run across the street from the station and shoot him.

Police are investigating how the second man was injured. T he BART  officer's body camera
recorded the incident.

A nearly 10-minute video of the aftermath of the incident posted to Facebook shows no clear
perimeter established at the scene as one man lies on the ground handcuffed and held by a police
officer and another man lies motionless.

Before officers begin life-saving measures, one woman rushes over to the body, tries to perform
CPR and is shooed away. Officers begin CPR about two minutes into the video.

T he identity of the BART  officer has not been released.

T he Oakland Police Department's homicide section is investigating the initial shooting and
subsequent officer-involved shooting. Anyone with information is asked to call the Oakland Police
Department Homicide Section at (510) 238-3821.

(c) San Francisco Chronicle 2018

 
POLICE IDENTIFY BART OFFICER INVOLVED IN FATAL - East Bay Times
(CA) - January 11, 2018 - page 2B
January 11, 2018 | East Bay Times (CA) | Harry Harris and David DeBolt. Staff writers | Page 2B

OAKLAND >> T he name of a BART  officer involved in a fatal shooting last week was released
Wednesday by authorities.

BART  Officer Joseph Mateu fatally shot Shaleem T indle
BART  station on Jan. 3, according to Oakland police, who are lead investigators on the case.

Shaleem T indle, 28, of Oakland near the West Oakland

Mateu, who is on paid leave during the investigation, was initially hired as a community service
assistant in May 2003, according to a BART  spokeswoman. He was sworn in as a police officer in
November 2005 and promoted to senior police officer in January 2010.

T indle was shot after refusing to drop a gun he was holding, police said. A photo of a gun
recovered at the scene was also released Wednesday.

T indle's family has retained attorney John Burris, who said Wednesday he is investigating whether
T indle's civil rights were violated. Burris viewed T indle's body and said there are wounds on his
upper right chest, lower right hip and up to three smaller wounds on his back.

"I'm trying to determine which are entry wounds and which are exit wounds," the attorney said.T he
Alameda County Coroner's Office will determine the cause of death and where Tindle was struck by
gunfire, authorities said.

Another man, identified only as an Oakland resident, had been in a struggle with Tindle and was
also wounded. Oakland police said they are still trying to determine who shot him.

T he shooting happened about 4:41 p.m. in the 1400 block of Seventh Street, across from the
BART  station.

Police said the BART  officer was at the station in full uniform when he heard gunshots and saw the
two men struggling with each other across the street. One of the men held a gun, police said.

T he officer went across the street and tried to get the man with the gun to drop the weapon
before the shooting, Oakland police said. T he BART  officer was not hurt.

Both wounded men were taken to a hospital where Tindle later died. T he other man was treated
and released.

Staff writer George Kelly contributed to this story. Contact Harry Harris at 510-208-6443 and
David DeBolt at 510-208-6453.

Copyrig ht © 2018 East Bay Times.

 


 
1:00 p.m. update: Family members have identified a 21-year-old man who was shot and killed by Austin police early

Friday as Aquantis Givens, a rapper from Baton Rouge, Louisiana who was performing on Sixth Street before he

was killed. 

getting ready for work. 

shots being fired. 

Sheldon Givens, the victim’s father, said he learned about his son’s death early Friday on social media as he was

“Everyone is taking it hard right now,” Givens’ cousin, Darren Bourgeois, who is a police officer in White Castle,

Louisiana, said by phone. “It wasn't something we were expecting to wake up to.” 

Police said they were called at around 1 a.m. to an alleyway behind the Terminal 6 bar on Sixth Street for reports of

When they arrived, they heard gunshots and took up positions near the alley behind the bar, then saw a man

running toward them with a gun, officials said. 

Assistant Police Chief Troy Gay said officers gave multiple commands for the man to drop the weapon before eight

officers opened fire. A ninth officer also fired a stun gun at Givens, police said. 

Givens was taken to the hospital, where he died shortly after. 

Earlier in the night, police said they had been called to the same bar for a fight that was happening out front during

a back to school rap concert. 

Family members say Givens was one of the rappers performing, and described him as an up-and-comer who came

to Texas to promote himself. They did not know with whom he was fighting. 

“I tried to stop him from going out there, he still wanted to go,” said Sheldon Givens, who last talked to his son on

Monday to wish him a happy 21st birthday. “I had a funny feeling, like something bad was going to happen.” 

Givens leaves behind a 3-year-old daughter. 

Bourgeois said Givens had a great personality, was smart and loved his family 

“He wasn't really no trouble maker like that,” Bourgeois said. “He would give you the shirt off his back.” 

Bourgeois said he did not want to comment on the nature of his cousin’s shooting. 

“I have to see the video,” he said. 

Assistant Chief Troy Gay said police opened fire on the man behind the Terminal 6 bar in the 600 block of Trinity

Street shortly after 1 a.m. after he ran toward them with a gun. 

A ninth officer also fired a Taser at the man, police said. 

Police identified the victim on Friday morning as a black man, but would not publicly name him. 

Gay said police started receiving calls around 12:21 a.m. about fights at the club, 302 East Sixth Street, where a

concert was taking place Thursday night. 

He said officers and the fire marshal responded to those incidents, but no one was hurt. 

Shortly after 1 a.m., police started receiving several calls about shots being fired in the area, Gay said. 

Police public safety cameras captured footage of an altercation that was happening in the alley behind the club,

where Gay said two people with firearms could be seen firing their weapons at each other multiple times. 

Officers who were nearby on Sixth Street responded, and hearing shots being fired, positioned themselves at the

end of the alley, Gay said. 

“At that point they saw an individual that was running toward them in an eastbound direction with a handgun in his

right hand,” Gay said. “The officers gave the individual multiple commands.” 

Gay said eight officers fired their weapons, including one who fired a Taser, and the man fell to the ground. They

then performed life-saving measures until Austin-Travis County EMS medics arrived to take him to the hospital. He

was pronounced dead at 1:22 a.m. 

A gun was recovered at the scene of the shooting, but Gay said no one else was taken into custody. He said people

scattered amid the gunfire, and asked anyone with information to contact homicide detectives at 512-974-5210. 

“Tonight was a very dynamic situation, which involved video footage from multiple cameras,” Gay said. “This is

going to take a long time for our investigators to go through our public safety videos, as well as videos of all the

officers.” 

The eight officers who fired their weapons have been placed on administrative leave, which is standard Austin

police protocol. They range in service from one to six years, Gay said. 

Internal affairs investigators will conduct an administrative investigation, along with a concurrent criminal

investigation by the special investigations unit and the Travis County District Attorney’s office. 

“As with any officer-involved shooting, it is a very tragic situation. It is a very sad day for our city,” Gay said. “We

have lost an individual, 21 years of age, but we also had officers that were involved in a critical incident. So our

hearts go out to our officers, they go out to our community and the individual’s families.” 

The deadly encounter marked the eighth Austin police shooting in 2018, and the second in August: 

* The first happened Jan. 26 when an officer shot and killed Christopher Eric Giles, of Albuquerque, N.M., while

responding to a home invasion in Central Austin. 

* On Feb. 19, police shot and killed 23-year-old Thomas Vincent Alvarez after he reportedly led officers on a chase

in Southeast Austin that ended in an apartment complex in the 4900 block of Edge Creek Drive, near the Onion

Creek Greenbelt. 

Springdale Road in East Austin. 

* Victor Ancira, 46, was shot by officers March 7 while holding a pickax in the 4800 block of Tanney Street, near

* On March 12, Kyle Thomas Garcia, 24, was wounded during an exchange of gunfire with Austin police in the 6200

block of La Naranja Lane. Police initially responded to the home in Southwest Austin after receiving a call from a

woman who said her son was threatening his father with a gun. 

* On March 25, police in Southeast Austin shot and killed a man who had earlier fired at officers, wounding one. 

* On June 7, police fatally shot a woman inside a Southeast Austin home in the 7300 block of South Glenn Street

after getting a call about a woman chasing people with a knife. 

* On Aug. 3, officers wounded 27-year-old Craig Anthony Carter at Spicewood Springs Road and Mesa Drive after a

chase through Northwest Austin. Police said Carter assaulted his mother earlier in the morning, and fired at

officers when they moved in to arrest him. 
 
 

Report: Baton Rouge rapper killed by police after - Advocate, The (Baton
Rouge, LA) - August 17, 2018
August 17, 2018 | Advocate, The (Baton Rouge, LA) | Advocate Staff

Baton Rouge rapper Aquantis Givens
them with a gun early Friday after a performance at a back to school rap concert, according to T he
Austin Statesman.

Aquantis Givens  was shot and killed by Austin police while he ran toward

Police said they were called around 1 a.m. to an alleyway behind a bar for reports of shots being
fire.

T he newspaper reported when police arrived, they heard gunshots and took up positions near the
alley behind the bar, then saw a man running toward them with a gun, officials said.

Assistant Police Chief Troy Gay said officers gave multiple commands for the man to drop the
weapon before eight officers opened fire. A ninth officer also fired a stun gun at Givens, police said.

Police public safety cameras captured footage of an altercation that was happening in the alley
behind the club, where Gay said two people with firearms could be seen firing their weapons at
each other multiple times.

T he 21-year-old Givens was taken to the hospital, where he died shortly after.

T he Statesman reported police had been called to the same bar earlier in the night for a fight
happening out front.

Family members say Givens was one of the rappers performing, and described him as an up-and-
comer who came to Texas to promote himself. T hey did not know with whom he was fighting.

T he newspaper reported Sheldon Givens, the victim's father, said he learned about his son's death
early Friday on social media as he was getting ready for work.

"I tried to stop him from going out there, he still wanted to go," said Sheldon Givens, who last
talked to his son on Monday to wish him a happy 21st birthday. "I had a funny feeling, like
something bad was going to happen."

Givens leaves behind a 3-year-old daughter.

Everyone is taking it hard right now," Givens' cousin, Darren Bourgeois, who is a police officer in
White Castle, Louisiana, said by phone. "It wasn't something we were expecting to wake up to."

Bourgeois said Givens had a great personality, was smart and loved his family.

"He wasn't really no trouble maker like that," Bourgeois said. "He would give you the shirt off his
back."

Bourgeois said he did not want to comment on the nature of his cousin's shooting.

"I have to see the video," he said.

For the complete story click here.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Advocate / Capital City Press LLC, All Rights Reserved.

 
Police: 8 officers open fire, kill armed man - - Austin American-
Statesman (TX) - August 18, 2018 - page A1
August 18, 2018 | Austin American-Statesman (TX) | Mary Huber and Mark Wilson | Page A1

T he sound of gunfire reverberated on Sixth Street on a busy back-to-school weekend and sent
crowds scrambling as eight Austin officers shot and killed a 21-year-old man who was carrying a
gun and ran toward them early Friday, police officials said.

Family members said the victim was Aquantis Givens
Aquantis Givens , a rapper from Baton Rouge, La., who was
performing Thursday night at the Terminal 6 bar. Police officials said the slain person was a black
man but did not publicly name him Friday.

Police said dispatchers started receiving calls around 12:24 a.m. about a confrontation outside the
bar at 302 E. Sixth St., where a back-to-school concert was taking place. No one was reported
injured in that fight, police said.

Shortly after 1 a.m., police received several calls about shots being fired in the same area, Assistant
Police Chief Troy Gay said.

He said police public safety cameras captured footage of a fight in the alley behind the club, where
two people with firearms could be seen shooting at each other.

Officers who were nearby on Sixth Street responded and, after hearing the shots, positioned
themselves near the alley, Gay said.

"At that point they saw an individual that was running toward them... with a handgun in his right
hand," Gay said.

He said officers gave multiple commands for the man to drop his weapon before eight of them
fired their guns, and the suspect fell to the ground.

Another officer discharged his stun gun on the man, Gay said.

Police then performed life-saving measures on the man until Austin-T ravis County Emergency
Medical Services medics arrived to take him to the hospital.

He was pronounced dead at 1:22 a.m.

No one else was injured in the shooting, police said.

Givens' relatives said they were shocked to hear the news on social media Friday morning.

"Everyone is taking it hard right now," Givens' cousin, Darren Bourgeois, said by phone.

Bourgeois described Givens as a family man with a great personality who would give anyone the
shirt off his back.

"He wasn't really a troublemaker like that," he said.

Givens has a 3-year-old daughter named Serenity, said his father, Sheldon Givens.

Sheldon Givens said his son was just starting out as a rapper and had traveled to Texas to perform.
He said the last time he talked to him was Monday to wish him a happy 21st birthday.

"I tried to stop him from going out there; he still wanted to go," Sheldon Givens said. "I had a funny
feeling, like something bad was going to happen."

Family members did not know whom Aquantis Givens

Aquantis Givens  could have been fighting with early Friday.

Several rappers were performing at Terminal 6 Thursday night, according to an event posting on
the bar's Facebook page.

Witnesses who were on Sixth Street early Friday described a chaotic scene with people scrambling
amid the gunfire.

Bryan Miller, who was deejaying at the bar Pour Choices on the corner of Sixth and Trinity streets,
said the entertainment district was particularly busy with college students returning for the school
year.

He said he heard about five shots shortly after 1 a.m., which were clearly audible over the music
blaring from the speakers.

"It sounded like bullets were ringing off the buildings," Miller said. "T hen I saw people stampeding."

Miller said he saw police officers running from all directions, and people were confused.

"I was blown away by the reaction as a whole," he said.

T hings return to normal shortly after the incident, he said.

Police said a gun was recovered at the scene of the shooting. No one was taken into custody.
Police have asked anyone with information to contact homicide detectives at 512-974-5210.

"T onight was a very dynamic situation, which involved video footage from multiple cameras," Gay
said. "It's going to take a long time for our investigators to go through our public safety videos, as
well as videos" from all the officers' body-worn cameras.

T he eight officers who fired their weapons have been placed on administrative leave, which is
standard Austin police protocol after a police shooting. T hey range in service from one to six
years, Gay said.

T he officer who used his stun gun also has been placed on leave, putting nine officers on leave at
one time, the most ever from a single shooting, police officials said.

Internal affairs will conduct an administrative investigation, along with a concurrent criminal inquiry
by the special investigations unit and the Travis County district attorney's office.

"As with any officer-involved shooting, it is a very tragic situation. It is a very sad day for our city,"
Gay said. "We have lost an individual, 21 years of age, but we also had officers that were involved in
a critical incident. So our hearts go out to our officers, they go out to our community and the
individual's families."

Contact Mary Huber at 512-321-2557.

T witter: @marymhuber Contact Mark Wilson at 512-445-3636.

(Box)

Jan. 26: An officer shot and killed Christopher Eric Giles of Albuquerque, N.M., while responding to a
home invasion in Central Austin, police have said.

Feb. 19: Police shot and killed 23-year-old Thomas Vincent Alvarez after he reportedly led officers
on a chase in Southeast Austin that ended at an apartment complex in the 4900 block of Edge
Creek Drive, near the Onion Creek Greenbelt.

March 7: Victor Ancira, 46, was shot by officers while holding a pickax in the 4800 block of T anney
Street, near Springdale Road in East Austin, officials said.

March 12: Kyle Thomas Garcia, 24, was wounded after exchanging gunfire with Austin police in the
6200 block of La Naranja Lane, officials have said. Police initially responded to the home in
Southwest Austin after receiving a call from a woman who said her son was threatening his father
with a gun.

March 25: Police in Southeast Austin shot and killed a man who had earlier fired at officers,
wounding one, officials have said.

June 7: Police officers fatally shot a woman inside a Southeast Austin home in the 7300 block of
South Glenn Street after getting a call about a woman chasing people with a knife, police said.

Aug. 3: Officers wounded 27-year-old Craig Anthony Carter at Spicewood Springs Road and Mesa
Drive after a chase through Northwest Austin, officials have said. Police said Carter assaulted his
mother earlier in the morning and that he had then fired at officers when they moved in to arrest
him.

(Box)

Officer-involved shootings in 2018

Friday's deadly encounter marked the eighth Austin police shooting this year and the second in
August:

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Austin American-Statesman

 

 
Aug. 17--The sound of gunfire reverberated on Sixth Street on a busy back-to-school weekend and sent crowds

scrambling as eight Austin officers shot and killed a 21-year-old man who was carrying a gun and ran toward them

early Friday, police officials said. 

Family members said the victim was Aquantis Givens, a rapper from Baton Rouge, La., who was performing

Thursday night at the Terminal 6 bar. Police officials said the slain person was a black man but did not publicly

Police said dispatchers started receiving calls around 12:24 a.m. about a confrontation outside the bar at 302 E.

Sixth St., where a back-to-school concert was taking place. No one was reported injured in that fight, police said. 

Shortly after 1 a.m., police received several calls about shots being fired in the same area, Assistant Police Chief

He said police public safety cameras captured footage of a fight in the alley behind the club, where two people with

firearms could be seen shooting at each other. 

Officers who were nearby on Sixth Street responded and, after hearing the shots, positioned themselves near the

"At that point they saw an individual that was running toward them ... with a handgun in his right hand," Gay said. 

He said officers gave multiple commands for the man to drop his weapon before eight of them fired their guns, and

the suspect fell to the ground. Another officer discharged his stun gun on the man, Gay said. 

Police then performed life-saving measures on the victim until Austin-Travis County Emergency Medical Services

medics arrived to take him to the hospital. He was pronounced dead at 1:22 a.m. 

No one else was injured in the shooting, police said. 

Givens' relatives said they were shocked to hear the news on social media Friday morning. 

"Everyone is taking it hard right now," Givens' cousin, Darren Bourgeois, said by phone. 

Bourgeois described Givens as a family man with a great personality who would give anyone the shirt off his back. 

"He wasn't really a troublemaker like that," he said. 

Givens has a 3-year-old daughter named Serenity, said his father, Sheldon Givens. 

Sheldon Givens said his son was just starting out as a rapper and had traveled to Texas to perform. He said the

last time he talked to him was Monday to wish him a happy 21st birthday. 

"I tried to stop him from going out there; he still wanted to go," Sheldon Givens said. "I had a funny feeling, like

something bad was going to happen." 

Family members did not know who Aquantis Givens could have been fighting with early Friday. 

Several rappers were performing at Terminal 6 Thursday night, according to an event posting on the bar's

Facebook page. 

gunfire. 

Witnesses who were on Sixth Street early Friday described a chaotic scene with people scrambling amid the

Bryan Miller, who was deejaying at the bar Pour Choices on the corner of Sixth and Trinity streets, said the

entertainment district was particularly busy with college students returning for the school year. He said he heard

about five shots shortly after 1 a.m., which were clearly audible over the music blaring from the speakers. 

"It sounded like bullets were ringing off the buildings," Miller said. "Then I saw people stampeding." 

Miller said he saw police officers running from all directions, and people were confused. 

"I was blown away by the reaction as a whole," he said. 

Things return to normal shortly after the incident, he said. 

Police said a gun was recovered at the scene of the shooting. No one was taken into custody. They have asked

anyone with information to contact homicide detectives at 512-974-5210. 

"Tonight was a very dynamic situation, which involved video footage from multiple cameras," Gay said. "It's going

to take a long time for our investigators to go through our public safety videos, as well as videos" from all the

officers' body-worn cameras. 

The eight officers who fired their weapons have been placed on administrative leave, which is standard Austin

police protocol after a police shooting. They range in service from one to six years, Gay said. 

The officer who used his stun gun also has been placed on leave, putting nine officers on leave at one time, the

most ever from a single shooting, police officials said. 

Internal affairs will conduct an administrative investigation, along with a concurrent criminal inquiry by the special

investigations unit and the Travis County district attorney's office. 

"As with any officer-involved shooting, it is a very tragic situation. It is a very sad day for our city," Gay said. "We

have lost an individual, 21 years of age, but we also had officers that were involved in a critical incident. So our

hearts go out to our officers, they go out to our community and the individual's families." 

CREDIT: By Mary Huber and Mark Wilson 
 
 



 
Indiana police shot and killed a Sioux Falls man accused of chasing an employee at a car dealership with a knife in

a Chicago suburb in northwestern Indiana on Wednesday morning, according to the Chicago Tribune. 

Jimmy Terry, 30, of Sioux Falls was identified at the Lake County (Indiana) coroner's office. His death was ruled a

homicide, according to a release from the coroner's office, the Tribune reported. 

Terry was also a suspect in a burglary at a Sioux Falls car dealership Tuesday. Detectives were in the process of

putting a warrant out for his arrest, said Police Spokesman Sam Clemens. 

Terry ran his vehicle through the building's windows and took keys to a vehicle from the building. 

Police responded to the report of a man chasing an employee with a knife at 11:38 a.m. Wednesday in Merrillville,

Ind. 

Officers were told the man, later identified as Terry, was in a dark-colored Laredo Jeep with a South Dakota license

plate parked at the dealership entrance, according to The Times. 

A recording of the shooting was reviewed by the Tribune, which shows the SUV was stopped in the dealership with

a Merrillville squad car parked behind it. 

An officer stood at the driver's side door with another officer a few feet away from him. 

According to the Chicago Tribune, the officer took "a few quick steps back and away from the vehicle's door." Both

officers unholstered their guns and pointed them at the vehicle's open door. 

Terry, dressed in a yellow and purple jacket, stepped out of the driver's side, took two steps in the officers' direction

and was then shot. 

The Times. 

An object that appears to be a knife was visible in his right hand, according to the Chicago Tribune. The knife was

recovered from the scene, but authorities did not release how many shots were fired. 

At least one shell casing and other items were identified at the scene with yellow evidence markers, according to

Terry was taken to Methodist Hospital Southlake Campus in Merrillville for gunshot wounds. He was pronounced

dead at 12:12 p.m. Wednesday, according to the Chicago Sun-Times. 

The Northwest Indiana Major Crimes Task Force is investigating the shooting at the request of Merrillville police,

No other injuries were reported. 

according to the Chicago Tribune. 
 
 


 
March 22--Officers who fatally shot a man outside a Merrillville car dealership last month were justified in their

actions, the Lake County prosecutor's office announced Thursday. 

Jimmy Terry, 30, of Sioux Falls, S.D., was fatally shot Feb. 14 in the driveway of Art Hill Ford Lincoln dealership

along U.S. 30. Police said they were called after he chased an employee there with a knife, according to a report. 

Two Merrillville police officers, who were placed on administrative leave after the shooting, acted in "self-defense

and in defense of each other" when they killed Terry, the prosecutor's office said in a document released Thursday,

and no charges will be filed in the case. 

release from Merrillville police Thursday. 

The officers "were released back to their regular assigned duties" in light of the decision," according to a news

"After a review of this case it was determined that the officers on scene had to protect the lives of the citizens and

themselves by using deadly force," the Merrillville release states. 

In the hours leading up to Terry's death, his family said he was in a mental health crisis and called Sioux Falls area

police and Merrillville police to try to assist him. He broke into a car dealership in South Dakota and was the

subject of a welfare check at a Walmart in Hobart before he was shot, according to his family and police. 

Trent McCain, a Merrillville attorney representing Terry's family, said he told Terry's mother, Denise Greenwood-

Terry, about the ruling on the shooting. 

"Obviously, she was very distraught and very disappointed," McCain said. "...She's very grief-stricken right now as

you can imagine." 

warranted. 

McCain said his office will conduct its own investigation into the shooting and determine if a civil lawsuit is

"We don't have many details right now but we do have a lot of questions," McCain said. 

Officers were called to the dealership at 11:37 a.m. Feb. 14 for a call that Terry was chasing an employee with a

knife, the Merrillville release states. 

A woman who worked at the car dealership called police from inside a locked bathroom, according to a recording

the Post-Tribune obtained through a public records request. The employee told a 911 dispatcher that a customer

had come in demanding keys to a Ford Explorer Sport, according to the call. 

When the woman insisted the man needed to produce at least a driver's license for him to test-drive a vehicle, "it

took like a minute and a half for him to process it," she said. 

"He said he'll be back," she said. 

Jimmy Terry then went outside, and "the next thing I know he came back in with a knife in his hand," demanding

keys from the manager, the woman said. 

"He told him, 'I'm going to kill you if you don't (hand over the keys),'" she said. 

A salesman gave Terry a set of keys and used a chair to separate himself from Terry, according to Merrillville

police. 

"Terry then chased that sales person out of the store," a release states. "The sales person ran to the Mazda

dealership and asked them to call the police." 

Officers found Terry leaving in a Jeep, according to the release, and he "was refusing to listen to loud verbal

commands to drop the knife." Police then used a stun gun on Terry, which was "ineffective," the release states. 

Terry got out of his Jeep with a knife as the officers drew their weapons while continuing to yell commands to drop

the knife, according to the release. 

"The officers started to back away when one officer could not back any further because he became trapped by the

snow pile behind him," the release states. "The officers then discharged their duty weapons striking Terry." 

Terry was taken to Methodist Hospitals Southlake in Merrillville where he was declared dead, police said. The Lake

County coroner's office ruled his death a homicide. 

A little before 6 a.m. the day before, Terry used his Jeep Cherokee to ram a glass wall of a Ford dealership in Sioux

Falls, Sam Clemens, Sioux Falls police spokesman, said. 

Terry took keys from inside, found the vehicle they belonged to in the lot and "started loading a bunch of his

personal items" into it, Clemens said. 

"Something scared him away, and we're not really sure what it was," Clemens said. 

Terry left his personal items in the vehicle and drove away in his Jeep, according to Clemens. 

Around 3 a.m. Feb. 14, Sioux Falls police asked Merrillville police to check on Jimmy Terry's well-being, a Hobart

police report shows. 

Hobart report states. 

Terry "has mental health issues" and said "he was driving to Washington, D.C., because it is the will of God," a

Minutes later, Hobart police, who have jurisdiction over the Walmart, went to check on him, where his family

learned he had stopped and asked relatives to wire him money, the report shows. The officers noted Terry "seems

lucid and fine," according to the report. 

"He stated he did not want to hurt himself or others and further stated that he was 'fine.' He confirmed he was

traveling to Washington for 'vacation,'" the report states. 

Terry's Jeep was "heavily damaged" on the front end with about 3 inches of glass by the windshield wipers that

appeared to be from the Sioux Falls dealership incident, according to the report. 

The officers got in touch with Sioux Falls police, who said they were applying for a warrant for the incident there

but it was "non-extraditable," the report states. 

Terry "was allowed to remain in his vehicle in the Walmart lot where he fell asleep," according to the report. He

hadn't committed any crimes in Hobart, and "he passed typical protocol for a mental commitment in our state," the

Under Indiana law, a police officer can commit a person if the officer has "reasonable grounds to believe that an

individual has a mental illness, is either dangerous or gravely disabled and is in immediate need of hospitalization

While he had struggled with mental health issues in recent years, Denise Greenwood-Terry said her son "kept

everything kind of private" as they tried to get him help. 

About a year ago, Terry bought two guns and "started to talk about mass shootings," according to Merrillville

"Family members had taken one gun away but believed that he still possessed one," a release states. 

report states. 

and treatment." 

police. 

rejacobs@post-trib.com 

CREDIT: By Becky Jacobs 
 
 


 
Merrillville police used a stun gun on a South Dakota man before he was fatally shot Wednesday outside a U.S. 30

car dealership, an official said. 

The Northwest Indiana Major Crimes Task Force, which is investigating the officer-involved shooting at the request

of Merrillville police, aims to wrap up its report next week and submit the case to the Lake County prosecutor's

office, Greg Mance, task force chairman, said. 

Jimmy Terry, 30, of Sioux Falls, S.D., died Wednesday after he was shot by police in the parking lot of Art Hill Ford

Lincoln dealership at 901 W. Lincoln Highway, according to Mance and the Lake County coroner's office. 

Merrillville police Chief Joseph Petruch said two of his officers had been placed on paid administrative leave,

Officers were called at 11:38 a.m. for a report of a man chasing an employee with a knife at the dealership, Mance

Police were told that the man later identified as Terry got into an SUV and stopped the vehicle near the dealership

following standard protocol. 

said. 

entrance, he said. 

The man "disregarded the officers' lawful commands and less lethal force," Mance said in a release Friday. Mance

said police used a stun gun on Terry, but it "was ineffective in subduing the subject as he continued his resistive

and armed approach towards the officers," according to Mance. 

Police then used lethal force and shot the man, he said. Terry was taken to Methodist Hospitals Southlake where

he died, Mance said. The coroner's office ruled his death a homicide. 

"Investigators of the task force have interviewed numerous witnesses and collected several articles of evidence

related to this case," Mance said in a release Friday. 

Mance confirmed that a knife was recovered from the scene. 

A question to Mance on whether the stun gun was used while Terry was inside or outside the vehicle was not

immediately answered Friday. 

rejacobs@post-trib.com 

Twitter @ruthyjacobs 

Credit: Becky Jacobs 
 
 


 
Investigators are aiming to wrap up their investigation Friday after police fatally shot a man with a knife outside a

Merrillville car dealership, an official said. 

Jimmy Terry, 30, of Sioux Falls, S.D., died in a shooting Wednesday, the Lake County coroner's office said. 

Merrillville Police Chief Joseph Petruch said two of his officers were placed on paid administrative leave as a

At 11:38 a.m. Wednesday, Merrillville officers were called to Art Hill Ford Lincoln dealership at 901 W. Lincoln

Highway for a report of a man chasing an employee with a knife, Greg Mance, chairman of the Northwest Indiana

Officers were told that the man later identified as Terry got into an SUV, which police believe belonged to him,

Mance said. Officers stopped the vehicle near the dealership entrance, and "during the traffic stop the identified

Terry was taken to Methodist Hospitals Southlake where he died, Mance said. The coroner's office ruled Terry's

result, following standard protocol. 

Major Crimes Task Force, said. 

armed suspect was shot," he said. 

death a homicide, a release states. 

The task force, which Merrillville police requested to handle the investigation, is looking into Terry's "recent past

actions" and the hours leading up to the shooting, Mance said. 

"By doing so we hope to better understand the precipitating factors of the incident," Mance said. 

Mance said investigators are expected to finalize their reports next week and submit it to the Lake County

prosecutor's office for review. 

According to a video recording of the shooting, viewed by the Post-Tribune, the SUV was stopped in the dealership

parking lot facing north with a Merrillville squad car parked behind it. 

The video shows an officer standing at the open driver's side door, with a second officer a few feet away from him. 

The officer suddenly takes a few quick steps back and away from the vehicle's door. Both officers unholstered

their guns, and pointed them at the vehicle's open door, the video shows. 

A man in a yellow and purple jacket then stepped out of the driver's side, according to the video. He took two steps

in the direction of the officers before he was shot, according to the video. 

He then fell to the ground and an object that appears to be a knife was visible in his right hand, the video shows.

While lying on his back, Terry appears to have set the object in his hand down on his left side, according to the

video. 

Police turned him onto his stomach and handcuffed him behind his back, the video shows. 

Mance said investigators were examining evidence Thursday collected from the scene. Mance declined to get into

specifics, but he confirmed Wednesday that a knife was recovered. 

Merrillville police do not use body or dashboard cameras, Petruch said. 

rejacobs@post-trib.com 

Twitter @ruthyjacobs 

Credit: Becky Jacobs 
 
 


 
Jimmy Terry was headed east to the nation's capital city when he stopped in Merrillville last month and asked

relatives to wire him money, family and police said. 

"I asked, 'Where exactly are you going in such a rush?'" Solomon Terry, Jimmy Terry's younger brother, said. "He

said he was going to Washington, D.C., to put the devils and demons in their place." 

But the 30-year-old Jimmy Terry was killed the morning of Feb. 14 when police fatally shot him in the driveway of a

car dealership along U.S. 30. Police said they were called after he chased an employee there with a knife. 

Records show family members had called Sioux Falls and Merrillville police to check on Terry's safety and try to

Hours before the fatal confrontation in Merrillville, Hobart police made contact with Terry less than three miles

away at Walmart on U.S. 30, but had no reason to arrest him, an official said. 

Terry's brothers were making the 10-hour trek from his home in South Dakota to Northwest Indiana when they

Two Merrillville police officers were placed on an administrative leave after the shooting, and the Northwest

Indiana Major Crimes Task Force turned over its investigation Feb. 27 to the Lake County prosecutor's office for

review, Greg Mance, task force spokesman, said. The prosecutor's office did not release an update as of Friday

detain him. 

learned of his death. 

afternoon. 

Terry's mother, Denise Greenwood-Terry, went through her son's belongings at his apartment earlier this month

after the family gathered for his funeral in Sioux Falls. 

She and his brothers said they think about the hours that led up to his death and the attempts to prevent it. 

"He needed help," Greenwood-Terry said. 

Sioux Falls dealership 

On Feb. 13, Jimmy Terry broke into a Ford dealership in Sioux Falls, his family and police said. 

A little before 6 a.m. that day, Terry used his Jeep Cherokee to ram a glass wall of the dealership, Sioux Falls police

spokesman Sam Clemens said. 

Terry took keys from inside, found the vehicle they belonged to in the lot and "started loading a bunch of his

personal items" into it, Clemens said. 

"Something scared him away, and we're not really sure what it was," Clemens said. 

Terry left his personal items in the vehicle and drove away in his Jeep, according to Clemens. 

Sioux Falls police considered Terry as a suspect, Clemens said. They learned Terry had died in Merrillville when

they were working on a warrant for his arrest the next day, Clemens said. 

Terry had no ties to Indiana, his family said. They think that's just where he ended up stopping after leaving home. 

His family estimates he must have left Sioux Falls around noon Feb. 13, and there was a gap before they heard

from him again. 

wrong," she said. 

Around 9 p.m. Feb. 13, Terry texted "asking for money," Lecon Terry, Jimmy's older brother, said. Greenwood-Terry

also got a call that night. Jimmy asked her to "wire him some money at Walmart" and said "he had done something

"He hung up on me because I guess I was shocked and I said, 'Are you sure?' He had been having so many different

dreams and hallucinating, you know," she said. 

"Once we found his location and what he needed, we were able to keep him there long enough to see if law

enforcement could do something to help him," Solomon Terry said. 

The family called non-emergency police numbers in Indiana and relatives who lived closer in Michigan to go check

on Terry, as Solomon and Lecon Terry began to drive south. 

"If I didn't think it was a dire situation, I wouldn't bother with it," Solomon Terry said. 

Shortly before 3 a.m. on Feb. 14, Sioux Falls police asked Merrillville police to check on Terry's well being, a Hobart

Terry "has mental health issues" and said "he was driving to Washington, D.C., because it is the will of God," the

Sioux Falls police instructed officers they "will need to develop your own probable cause for a mental health hold"

if they found Terry, according to the report. 

Minutes later, Hobart police, who have jurisdiction over the Walmart, went to check on him, the report shows. 

The officers noted Terry "seems lucid and fine," but they told him "his family was concerned for his safety,"

according to the report. 

"He stated he did not want to hurt himself or others and further stated that he was 'fine.' He confirmed he was

traveling to Washington for 'vacation,'" the report states. 

Terry's Jeep was "heavily damaged" on the front end with about three inches of glass by the windshield wipers that

appeared to be from the Sioux Falls dealership incident, according to the report. 

The officers got in touch with Sioux Falls police, who said they were applying for a warrant for the incident there

but it was "non-extraditable," the report states. 

Terry "was allowed to remain in his vehicle in the Walmart lot where he fell asleep," according to the report. He

hadn't committed any crimes in Hobart and "he passed typical protocol for a mental commitment in our state," the

Hobart welfare check 

police report shows. 

report states. 

report states. 

Mental health help 

Police have a tough bar to meet when responding to a person who may be in a mental health crisis, said Marianne

Halbert, criminal justice director for the National Alliance on Mental Illness in Indiana. 

"Too many times we as law enforcement as whole are forced to make difficult decisions. Sometimes they are split-

second and sometimes we can analyze and weigh the options before we make a decision, and (in) this situation

we had time to analyze our options," Hobart police spokesman Lt. James Gonzales said in an email. 

Under Indiana law, a police officer can commit a person if the officer has "reasonable grounds to believe that an

individual has a mental illness, is either dangerous or gravely disabled and is in immediate need of hospitalization

and treatment." 

Hobart officers observed Terry to see if he posed any harm, and they contacted Sioux Falls to see if they could

detain him for a crime there, according to Gonzales. 

"Unfortunately, neither option worked and we weren't able to legally detain Mr. Terry," Gonzales said. 

It's a delicate balance to find reasonable belief that meets legal criteria to detain someone without infringing on a

person's civil rights, Halbert said. 

If a police response doesn't lead to detention, a family can petition a medical professional to have a court order an

emergency detention, but that can be a much longer process, Halbert and Gonzales said. 

"These are really tough situations," Halbert said. "It can be heartbreaking for everybody involved." 

Terry's family said they had asked police to detain Terry to keep him safe until they could get there and get him the

help he needed, which Solomon Terry said he thought was "a good plan." 

Jimmy Terry 

Terry studied at Iowa State University's architectural program, his obituary states, and he had a passion for

While Terry had struggled with mental health issues in recent years, Greenwood-Terry said her son "kept everything

kind of private" as they tried to get him help. Family members said he had been taking medication used to treat

Terry was "having bad dreams," she said. When Lecon Terry talked to his brother the morning he was killed "it was

drawing and playing drums and violin. 

"He was always very photogenic," Lecon Terry said. 

mental illness. 

still going on like he was a different person," he said. 

"This was a real episode," Lecon Terry said. 

Sioux Falls police had "a few different" incidents" in the past with Terry, but "nothing serious," Clemens said. 

Terry had never done anything as serious as an attempted burglary before, his family said. 

Being hours away, it was frustrating to ask for help when Terry was all the way in Indiana, they said. 

"I trusted that they were going to help my son, not kill him," Greenwood-Terry said. 

911 calls 

A woman who worked at the car dealership called police from inside a locked bathroom, according to recording the

Post-Tribune obtained through a public records request. The employee told a 911 dispatcher that a customer had

come in demanding keys to a Ford Explorer Sport, according to the call. 

When she insisted he needed to produce at least a driver's license for him to test drive a vehicle, "it took like a

minute and a half for him to process it," she said. 

"He said he'll be back," she said. 

the manager, the woman said. 

"He told him, 'I'm going to kill you if you don't,'" she said. 

Terry then went outside, and, "the next thing I know he came back in with a knife in his hand," demanding keys from

A male caller described Terry to a dispatcher —a purple and yellow Vikings jacket, glasses —when he broke off and

yelled to someone in the distance, "He's right there! He's right there in the Jeep!" 

Moments later, Terry was shot by Merrillville police. He died shortly later at Methodist Hospital Southlake. 

Police recovered a knife from the scene, and the task force previously said officers used a stun gun before

shooting Terry. Mance declined to comment on when the stun gun was used and declined to answer additional

questions until after prosecutors decide on the case. 

rejacobs@post-trib.com 

Twitter @ruthyjacobs 

Credit: Becky Jacobs 
 
 


3 officers cleared in shooting of man with knife - Associated Press State
Wire: South Carolina (SC) - June 14, 2018
June 14, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: South Carolina (SC)

GREENVILLE, S.C. (AP) — A prosecutor says three officers were justified shooting a mentally
disturbed man armed with a knife in his South Carolina backyard.

T he family of 35-year-old Jermaine M assey
less violently since Massey called 911 himself reporting he was bipolar and feared he might harm
his family.

Jermaine Massey says Greenville County deputies should have reacted

Solicitor Walt Wilkins said at a Thursday news conference that officers feared for their safety when
Massey lunged at one of them with the knife on March 19. He showed body camera footage of
Massey not reacting to Taser shocks.

Wilkins says three officers fired 11 shots total.

Interim Sheriff Johnny Mack Brown says he is working to get training on dealing with people having
a mental health crisis to as many deputes as possible after the shooting.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
Four deputies involved in the shooting death of 35-year-old Jermaine Massey have been cleared through an

internal investigation. 

mental health crisis. 

The four, whose names have not been disclosed, were placed on paid administrative leave immediately following

the March 19 shooting on 3rd Avenue in the Poe Mill community. Massey had called 911 seeking help during a

Authorities have said deputies responded to Massey's home for a reported disturbance and found him in his back

yard with a knife. After about 10 minutes of negotiations, authorities said Massey charged at them with the knife at

which point deputies fired shots, striking and killing him. 

A 911 call previously obtained by The Greenville News through a Freedom of Information Act request, revealed that

Massey had called 911 on himself, telling a dispatcher that he needed someone to take him away from his home,

where his longtime girlfriend and children were at the time. He told the dispatcher he suffers from bipolar disorder

and made remarks that he felt like killing his family. 

The four deputies put on leave were cleared of any wrongdoing based on an internal investigation through

Greenville County's Office of Professional Standards. 

They were put back in full service after the investigation finished, Sgt. Ryan Flood, a spokesman for the Sheriff's

Office, said Wednesday. Flood said he did not know the date of when the investigation closed, and declined to

comment further. 

"They have been cleared internally," he said. 

A State Law Enforcement Division investigation into the shooting is ongoing. 

The Sheriff's Office has denied requests for the names of the deputies specifically involved in the shooting of

Massey. 

A redacted incident report and supplemental report from the Sheriff's Office was released Tuesday. The report lists

out the last names of every deputy and officer who responded to the scene that day, but does not identify the

officers who were involved in the shooting. 

investigator with the Sheriff's Office. 

"We're not going to release that right now. That's still under SLED's investigation," said Wes Smith, a legal

"You asked for the names of the officers involved. That's got everybody that responded out there. We've answered

that FOIA and are not going to release the specific names of who was involved." 

The report's narrative offers little insight into how the events unfolded, focusing primarily on summarizing the 911

call, which was already made public, and describing the efforts made to secure the scene. 

Massey's family, alongside several community activists, have pushed for answers, most recently calling for the

release of the names of the deputies who were specifically involved in shooting Massey. 

They have said they believe the shooting was unwarranted, and that Massey was only asking for help and instead

was met with force. 

Activists have said finding out the deputies' names would help the public understand the deputies' backgrounds

and whether they have a history of using force. 

"We have to have transparency," U.A. Thompson, a community activist representing the family, said during a recent

news conference outside the Greenville County Law Enforcement Center. "Release those names so that this family

can get help with closure." 

On Wednesday, community activist Traci Fant released a statement on behalf of the family and representatives to

express displeasure in the Sheriff's Office to place the deputies involved back into service. 

"It is especially surprising to us that these officers have been internally cleared and released back to the streets of

Greenville County without having had proper crisis intervention training nor de-escalation techniques," Fant said in

the statement. "We would hope that these trigger sensitive officers will not be involved in any other deaths of this

The Sheriff's Office has also not responded to a request for statistics on how many deputies have undergone crisis

Tiffany Copeland speaks about her husband, Jermaine Massey. 

nature while on patrol." 

intervention team training. 

CAPTION:  

JOSH MORGAN/Staff 
 
 

South Carolina sheriff: Deputy fatally shoots man - Associated Press:
Greenville Metro Area (SC) - March 20, 2018
March 20, 2018 | Associated Press: Greenville Metro Area (SC)

GREENVILLE, S.C. (AP) — A sheriff's deputy has shot and killed a man with a knife in South Carolina.

Greenville County Sheriff Will Lewis told news outlets the man was killed after he charged at
deputies Monday afternoon.

Lewis says deputies had been called to a disturbance and found several people in a home who were
"potential hostage victims."

Lewis says several minutes of negotiations and the use of non-lethal means failed to convince the
man to drop the knife. An officer fired when the man came toward deputies.

T he coroner's office said the suspect was 35-year-old Jermaine M assey
man. State Law Enforcement Division spokesman T hom Berry said the officer was a white man.
His name wasn't immediately released.

Jermaine Massey of Greenville, a black

Lewis says the deputy has been placed on administrative leave.

Copyrig ht 2018 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

 

 
"We have got to get this CIT (Crisis Invervention Team) training. When we have situations like this, people need to

be trained to diffuse the situation, not escalate it. We don't get good outcomes with that." 

Ennis Fant 

Greenville County Councilman 

health issues. 

about 450 sworn deputies. 

None of the deputies involved in the shooting death of a Greenville man who called 911 for help during a mental

health crisis had taken what's considered to be the most thorough training for dealing with people with mental

Records obtained by The Greenville News this week through the Freedom of Information Act list 106 Greenville

County Sheriff's Office employees who have completed the Crisis Intervention Team training. The agency has

The four deputies involved in the March 19 shooting were not on the list, and three of them had been with the

Sheriff's Office for less than a year and a half. 

Interim Sheriff Johnny Mack Brown released the names of the four deputies involved in the shooting of 35-year-old

Jermaine Massey in "an effort to maintain transparency," the Sheriff's Office said in a statement Thursday. 

Those involved were Master Deputy Wes Kilgore, Deputy Chris Bell, Deputy Mark Dulude and Deputy Jake

Lancaster. 

Lancaster was on scene but did not discharge a firearm, the Sheriff's Office said. 

The Crisis Intervention Team training is an extensive, weeklong course that teaches about the signs and

symptoms of mental illnesses, who to recognize in crisis situations, safe de-escalation strategies and use of

community resources. CIT training is spearheaded by the National Alliance on Mental Illness, which offers the 40-

hour class to law enforcement officers for free. 

Kilgore, Bell, Dulude and Lancaster had taken a two-hour mandatory mental health course through the S.C.

Criminal Justice Academy, according to records obtained by The News after the officers' names were made public. 

Ken Dority, the executive director of Greenville's chapter of the National Alliance on Mental Illness, said the

Criminal Justice Academy course is "not as robust" as the 40-hour NAMI training, which he said is the best training

available to officers. 

training. 

Two Greenville County Council members have urged the Sheriff's Office to put all of its deputies through CIT

training, a demand they voiced in the wake of Massey's death outside his 3rd Avenue home. 

Greenville County Councilman Ennis Fant figured the deputies involved in the shooting had not taken NAMI's

"Are you surprised?" he said Friday. "We have got to get this CIT training. When we have situations like this, people

need to be trained to diffuse the situation, not escalate it. We don't get good outcomes with that." 

The Jermaine Massey shooting 

Massey had called 911 on March 19 to report he was having a mental health crisis and was asking for someone to

come help him, according to a 911 call The News obtained in March through a Freedom of Information Act request. 

He told a dispatcher he suffered from bipolar disorder and was "fixing to do something stupid." 

Deputies responded and found Massey in the backyard of his Poe Mill community home. He was holding what

appeared to be a butcher's knife, now-suspended Sheriff Will Lewis said on the night of the shooting. 

Lewis previously said there were at least five people inside the home when deputies arrived, describing them as

"potential hostage victims," so deputies tried to get them out of the house as quickly as they could. 

After about seven to 10 minutes of negotiating and using less-than-lethal tactics to apprehend Massey, Lewis said

Massey charged at the deputies with the knife, and they shot and killed him. 

Family members and community activists have said the shooting was unjustified and was the result of authorities'

inability to properly handle someone who was having a mental breakdown. 

Deputies could be heard on the 911 call saying "don't do it" and "drop the knife" during interactions with him.

Family members have said repeatedly shouting "drop it" does not constitute adequately trying to de-escalate the

The four deputies involved were placed on administrative leave following the shooting. They were cleared of

wrongdoing and placed back on duty after an internal investigation through the Sheriff's Office's Office of

The State Law Enforcement Division is still investigating the shooting, spokesman Thom Berry said Friday. 

situation. 

Professional Responsibility. 

Levels of training 

At the Criminal Justice Academy, officers are required to complete 40 hours of in-service training every three years. 

One course is a two-hour "Mental Illness: An Officer's Response" class, which was made a requirement in 2017,

said Maj. Florence McCants, a spokeswoman for the academy. 

Previously, only a "legals" class, which educates officers on criminal law, and a criminal domestic violence class

were required. The rest of the 40 hours could be made up with classes of the officer's or agency's choosing, she

said. 

McCants said several mental health scenarios also are integrated into other training the academy offers. She said

finding additional training opportunities beyond academy requirements is encouraged. 

"Whatever is going on in an agency, they can decide what classes they want to take," she said. 

Fant said the academy's in-service training on mental illness alone is "not sufficient." 

Dority said NAMI's 40-hour training program has reduced cases of violence in some jurisdictions. 

"I am convinced it is the best thing we have to offer at this time," Dority said. "With the 40-hour version, there are a

lot of stakeholders from the community involved with training and resources." 

Dority said rather than an agency putting every sworn deputy through their training, which may require increasing

overtime pay and adjusting schedules so that shifts are covered while deputies are in class, it's more important to

have a select number of CIT-trained deputies in every section of a jurisdiction. 

"What we've been trying to work with the Sheriff's Office on for the past two or three years is getting coverage on

all shifts in a proximity so that we don't have to wait an hour to get a CIT-trained officer to a scenario," Dority said. 

Dority said law enforcement agencies with CIT-trained officers have gained better perception and trust from the

community and sent fewer people to jail by diverting them to other emergency resources. 

"There are many benefits, but two of the key benefits are fewer injuries to folks with mental health conditions and

fewer injuries to officers," Dority said. "That's why it's critical." 

Sgt. Ryan Flood, a spokesman for the Sheriff's Office, has previously said the agency will host its first Crisis

Intervention Team school in July and is "fully committed to training our deputies to properly interact and respond

to those dealing with mental illnesses." 

History of the deputies 

mental health in January. 

Each of the four deputies involved in Massey's shooting completed the S.C. Criminal Justice Academy's course on

Kilgore has been in law enforcement since 2003 when he worked for the Cobb County Police Department in

Georgia and later the McIntosh County Sheriff's Office in Georgia. He came to the Greenville County Sheriff's Office

in 2012, according to his employment records obtained from the Criminal Justice Academy. 

Bell has been with the Sheriff's Office since May 2017, according to his records from the academy. 

Records show that Dulude has been with the Sheriff's Office since Jan. 2. His career in South Carolina began in

2011 when he began working for the S.C. Highway Patrol. 

He left the Highway Patrol on Dec. 25, 2017. 

Lancaster started with the Sheriff's Office on Nov. 21, 2016, his record shows. 

The Sheriff's Office had previously denied multiple requests from The News to release the names of the four

Community activists representing Massey's family had urged law enforcement to publicize the deputies' names to

learn more about their backgrounds and help the family's grieving process. 

"All he wanted was help," Massey's sister, Tamika Gordon, said in the wake of the shooting, "and they didn't give it

"We have got to get this CIT (Crisis Invervention Team) training. When we have situations like this, people need to

be trained to diffuse the situation, not escalate it. We don't get good outcomes with that." 

officers. 

to him." 

Ennis Fant 

CAPTION:  

Greenville County Councilman 

The family of Jermaine Massey holds a news conference outside of the Law Enforcement Center after his death

was ruled a homicide on April 13. Greenville County Sheriff's deputies fatally shot Massey after responding to a

911 call he made about his mental health crisis. 

LAUREN PETRACCA/greenville news 
 
 


 
The personnel files of four Greenville County deputies involved in the fatal shooting of a mentally-unstable man

show mostly positive remarks from supervisors and few criticisms, according to documents obtained by The

Greenville News. 

The deputies, including one who was previously involved in another deadly shooting, were placed on paid

administrative leave in March immediately following the fatal shooting of 35-year-old Jermaine Massey. The

Sheriff's Office said he charged at deputies with a knife behind his 3rd Avenue home in the Poe Mill community. 

The deputies were Master Deputy Wes Kilgore, Deputy Chris Bell, Deputy Mark Dulude and Deputy Jake Lancaster.

Lancaster did not fire his weapon but was on scene during the March 19 ordeal, authorities have said. 

The News requested their personnel files after interim Sheriff Johnny Mack Brown released their names May 3. 

Massey's family and activists wanted the Sheriff's Office to release the names sooner because of public interest

and to see what, if any, red flags may have indicated a lack of training or history of violence involving the deputies.

Previous requests for the names had been denied under now suspended Sheriff Will Lewis. 

Three of the four deputies involved in the Massey shooting had been with the agency for less than a year and a

half. They were all still employed by the Sheriff's Office as of Friday. 

The four deputies each took the S.C. Criminal Justice Academy's basic training and in-service training that

includes classes on mental health and domestic violence, although none of the men had taken Crisis Intervention

Team training provided by the National Alliance on Mental Illness. The CIT training is considered the best mental

health training currently available, NAMI Greenville executive director Ken Dority has said. 

The Sheriff's Office declined to comment on the backgrounds of the deputies and declined to say whether the

deputies have since taken NAMI's training in the wake of the shooting. The deputies were reinstated on April 3. 

A State Law Enforcement Division investigation into the shooting is ongoing. 

"To remain consistent with all officer-involved shootings and in an effort to protect the integrity of the ongoing

investigation, it would be inappropriate to comment prior to the conclusion of SLED and the 13th Circuit's

investigations," Sheriff's Office spokesman Ryan Flood said in a statement. 

Deputy Charles Jake Lancaster 

Lancaster, who the Sheriff's Office hired in November 2016, has been involved in two deputy-involved shootings,

according to documents in his personnel file. 

gun chasing a woman on White Horse Road in Berea. 

In 2017, he was among multiple deputies who responded to a report of a domestic situation involving a man with a

Ramiro Bravo Ramirez, 34, died July 14, 2017, after exchanging gunfire with deputies. Investigators determined

Ramirez died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, though he was found with at least a dozen gunshot

wounds. Lancaster noticed Ramirez shooting at deputies, and Lancaster fired 10 shots after he arrived on scene,

according to documents obtained by The News. 

Ramirez had been shooting at his girlfriend, Candy Esther Rosario, 25, as she ran away from him, investigators

said. The two had been arguing at an apartment earlier that day, according to the investigation. By the time

deputies arrived, Ramirez and Rosario were lying down next to each other. Some witnesses reported seeing

Ramirez hit Rosario with a pistol and shoot her before shooting himself in the head. 

In one deputy's post-shooting interview, he said Rosario appeared to be moving her body while deputies were firing

at Ramirez, according to SLED investigative files. The SLED report states that Rosario was found with two gunshot

wounds, one in the side of her head, the other in her buttocks. 

The bullet fragments taken from Rosario's head wound were never matched to a specific gun, according to the

investigative files. 

The damaged bullet found in her left buttock could not be matched to a specific firearm but was consistent with a

.45 caliber pistol, according to ballistics testing. Ramirez had a 9 mm pistol while several deputies, including

Lancaster, had been using .45-caliber pistols, according to the investigative files. 

Lancaster was placed on leave after the shooting, which is standard procedure for deputies after an officer-

involved shooting. State authorities interviewed him four days later, and he was reinstated to full duty July 25,

The SLED investigation was later completed, and the deputies were cleared in that case. 

In Lancaster's firearms training, he scored a 70 percent in pistol training and an 80 percent in shotgun training,

2017. 

records show. 

In his latest evaluation, Lancaster scored a 102 out of 125. He scored four out of five for most categories, including

decision-making, interviews, policy conformance, crisis action and dependability. He scored a five out of five for

accountability and equipment maintenance. 

Interviewer notes from his hiring process state he was an "excellent candidate," that he "demonstrates problem-

solving abilities" and that he "maintains composure through deadly force" based on mock scenarios presented to

him. 

Lancaster has only one citizen complaint in his file. 

A woman complained that Lancaster told a man to break into her shed to retrieve his belongings after being called

there for a dispute. The woman said she had invited the man to stay at her home after he was kicked out from his

own home. Lancaster was exonerated, and another deputy followed up with the woman and fixed the damage to

her shed. 

Deputy Christopher Bell 

Bell has been with the Sheriff's Office since May 30, 2017, records show. 

From his most recent evaluation June 4, Bell scored a 100 out of 125, scoring a four out of five in 25 categories. 

That most recent evaluation summary states he should continue to expose himself to as many calls as possible,

adding that he makes good decisions in high-stress situations. 

Records state he earned his associate's degree in criminal justice before coming to the Sheriff's Office. He also

had been a licensed Realtor, a store manager at Walgreens and a personal trainer at an Anderson YMCA. 

On his application to the Sheriff's Office, he said he shadowed the Greenville County coroner in 2003, had an

internship with the Anderson County Forensics Unit in 2006 and was put on the dean's list and president's list

while in college. He stated he had extensive experience in dealing with the public and diffusing upset customers. 

Comments from his interviewers during the application process included "common sense answers," "dealt with the

stress of the interview well," "good communication skills" and "very pleasant demeanor." 

Deputy Mark Dulude 

Dulude has been with the Sheriff's Office since January, starting roughly two months before the Massey shooting. 

He worked as a lance corporal with the S.C. Highway Patrol from July 2011 to December 2017, records show. He

also had worked for Santee Cooper Security in Monks Corner from 2008 to 2010 and Walgreens in 2007. He earned

a bachelor's degree in criminal justice. 

enforcement officer in South Carolina. 

The Sheriff's Office decided before he was hired to waive his board interview process since he was already a law

In Dulude's most recent evaluation, he earned a 75 out of 125, earning three out of five scores on each category.

Each category, ranging from accountability to appearance and officer safety, is graded on a scale of one to five. 

He completed a shortened field training period with the Sheriff's Office given his prior experience with the Highway

Patrol. 

Master Deputy Wesley Kilgore 

since Oct. 1, 2012. 

show. 

parachute accident. 

emergency response. 

The most senior deputy out of the four involved in the Massey shooting, Kilgore has been with the Sheriff's Office

He was previously a deputy sheriff for the McIntosh County Sheriff's Office in Georgia from 2007 to 2012, records

He was in the U.S. Army from 2001 to 2003 when he was honorably discharged. He suffered a back injury from a

His career specialties have included work involving meth labs, child predators, narcotics, community policing and

In November 2016, he was transferred from the narcotics unit to community patrol. He scored a 106 out of 125 in a

2016 evaluation. That evaluation stated his strength was in his ability to reach others. 

He scored a 122 out of 125 in his most recent evaluation and has been a member of the Greenville County

Emergency Management Team and the Technical Rescue and Recovery Team. 

Records show Kilgore was promoted to master deputy with the community patrol division in April, six days after he

was put back on duty from the Poe Mill shooting. 

property thefts and burglaries. 

Kilgore was thanked by a resident in June 2017 for leading a community meeting in Berea stemming from a rash in

Kilgore was one of a team of deputies thanked by a resident for their work in raiding a meth house in 2015. 

He received more praise in 2013 from a woman who wrote to the Sheriff's Office saying, "Just wanted to thank

(Kilgore) for helping me and being real nice." 

A positive counseling report letter from 2015 states that Kilgore was traveling to church when he discovered a man

on the side of the road who appeared to be unconscious. He began performing CPR until paramedics arrived. 

He was later among a handful of deputies recognized in a letter for the Sheriff's Office's work to investigate sex

trafficking in Greenville County. 

But in March 2016, Kilgore was suspended without pay for eight hours for losing his radio. Former Sheriff Steve

Loftis pointed out in a letter that the lost radio on March 30, 2016, marked the second time Kilgore had misplaced

county-issued equipment. He misplaced his assault rifle on a set of outside bleachers at the Sheriff's Office's

training center, according to a written reprimand letter dated Dec. 29, 2015. Several days passed without Kilgore

"We discussed the importance of knowing the location and condition of all issued firearms and especially that of a

reporting it missing and that it was misplaced. 

fully automatic firearm," the letter reads. 

The Jermaine Massey shooting 

Massey had called 911 that day to ask for help during a mental health crisis. He told a dispatcher he had bipolar

disorder. When deputies responded, they found him in the backyard with a knife, authorities have said. 

Sheriff Lewis said on scene the night of the shooting that Massey's family members were in the home and

removed from the scene shortly after deputies arrived since they were considered "potential hostage victims." 

After about seven to 10 minutes of negotiations, Lewis said Massey came at them with the knife, at which point

the deputies opened fire. 

While on scene, deputies could be heard on the 911 call saying "don't do it" and "drop the knife" during interactions

with him. Massey's family members have said repeating "drop the knife" doesn't constitute effective negotiations. 

In the initial 911 call, Massey said he was "fixing to do something stupid" and made threatening remarks toward

his family. 

ID_Code: 060918 

The SLED investigation into the shooting is ongoing, and investigative documents are not yet available. 

Greenville County Sheriff's Department officers investigate the scene of an officer-involved shooting near Poe Mill

U.A. Thompson speaks about Jermaine Massey's shooting death at a news conference March 24. 

Subject:

Shootings; Domestic violence; Criminal investigations; Mental health care; Training;

Firearms; Mental disorders

Publication title:

The Greenville News; Greenville, S.C.

on March 19. 

photos by JOSH MORGAN/Staff 

CREDIT: Daniel J. Gross 
 
 



 
The Greenville County Coroner's Office has released an official cause of death in a deputy-involved shooting in the

Poe Mill community Monday. 

Jermaine Massey, 35, of Greenville, died of a gunshot wound to the torso. 

It remains unclear how many times Massey was struck. 

"We're not saying he was only shot one time. What we're saying is that a shot to the torso is what caused his

Massey was shot Monday evening outside his home after deputies responded there for a reported disturbance,

Four deputies involved in the incident have been placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of an

death," Deputy Coroner Jeff Fowler said. 

according to the Sheriff's Office. 

investigation. 

The State Law Enforcement Division is investigating the shooting. Massey was treated on scene before being

taken to Greenville Memorial Hospital, where he died, according to the Coroner's Office. 

Massey leaves behind three children and a longtime girlfriend. 

His family has claimed that the shooting was racially motivated and that Massey was profiled at a nearby

convenience store hours before the shooting. His family also said there was no disturbance, despite Sheriff's

Office claims, and family members are unsure what led to the deputies responding to the home. 

Sheriff Will Lewis has said that after trying to apprehend Massey using less-than-lethal tactics, Massey charged

them with what appeared to be a butcher's knife. He said there were other people inside the home at the time,

indicating that there was a hostage situation, so deputies attempted to remove the others from the home prior to

the shooting, Lewis said. 

Family spokesman U.A. Thompson has also challenged the claim of Massey having a knife, stating there were no

butcher knives missing from the kitchen and that Massey had a Black &Mild cigar in his hand. 

Thom Berry, a SLED spokesman, said body camera footage was taken from the scene, but that footage is not being

Publication title:

The Greenville News; Greenville, S.C.

released to the public. 

The investigation is ongoing. 
 
 


 
"Why did they have to kill him? He was a father and a husband and a provider, and now three children have to grow

up without their father for a senseless crime that the police have caused." 

Tiffany Copeland 

Jermaine Massey's wife 

The family of a man killed in a deputy-involved shooting has disputed law enforcement's version of events and

threatened legal action against the Greenville County Sheriff's Office. 

Jermaine Massey, 35, of Greenville, was shot and killed Monday after deputies said he charged at them with a

knife. Sheriff Will Lewis said deputies had responded to his home at 234 3rd Avenue in the Poe Mill community for

a reported disturbance there Monday evening. 

"Why did they have to kill him? He was a father and a husband and a provider, and now three children have to grow

up without their father for a senseless crime that the police have caused," Massey's wife, Tiffany Copeland, said. 

Copeland stood with other family members and advocacy group leaders outside Massey's home Wednesday to

demand answers to the questions they still have surrounding the killing. 

Hours before the shooting, family representatives said Massey went to a convenience store where he was

"profiled" and "harassed" by a Sheriff's Office deputy. Family members said they believe the deputies' response to

his house was somehow related to the earlier encounter. 

"Consistent with all officer involved shootings and in an effort to maintain the integrity of the investigation, the

Sheriff's Office will defer comment on the incident until the conclusion of the SLED and 13th Circuit Solicitor's

Office's investigation," Sheriff's Office Sgt. Ryan Flood said via email Wednesday evening in response to questions

about the 911 call and the alleged earlier encounter. 

Calls to the Sheriff's Office seeking information on the alleged earlier encounter were not returned Wednesday

afternoon. 

The Sheriff's Office has denied requests for the 911 call recordings connected to the case. Details about the type

of disturbance and nature of the 911 call are unclear. 

"I am unable to fulfill your request at this time due to the ongoing and active SLED and (internal affairs)

investigations concerning the incident," Greta McIntyre, a legal investigator with the Sheriff's Office, said in

response to The News' public records request for the 911 calls associated with the ordeal. "We as an agency can't

provide this material prior to the conclusion of both our internal as well as the SLED investigations." 

State law doesn't permit an agency to withhold a public document, including 911 calls, solely on the basis of an

ongoing investigation. 

South Carolina Press Association attorney Taylor Smith said agencies must show how the very nature of

producing a record to a requesting agency would without question interfere with a law enforcement matter. 

"The thing I would particularly advise them to look at is the first word of every section. Would interfere. Would

disclose. They have to show that by their very disclosure, it would hurt the agency," Smith said. 

Lewis had said there were at least five people inside the home when deputies arrived, describing them as "potential

hostage victims," so deputies tried to get them out of the house as quickly as they could, he said. 

Lewis addressed media at the scene Monday night, stating that deputies tried less-than lethal tactics to apprehend

Massey before he charged at them wielding "something similar to a butcher's knife." 

Deputies fired at least one shot during the altercation, striking Massey at least once, according to the Sheriff's

Office. He was treated for injuries on scene before being transported to Greenville Memorial Hospital where he

died, the Coroner's Office stated. 

U.A. Thompson, an advocacy group leader representing the family, said they don't believe Massey was armed. 

"All we know is there is no butcher knife missing from the kitchen of knives," Thompson said. "What we do know is

that he had a Black &Mild in his hand. He posed no threat. He was 130 pounds at best, out in the back of the yard

playing with his children." 

Thompson said Massey was hit with a Taser several times before the actual shooting. 

Copeland and two of Massey's children witnessed the shooting, Thompson said. Massey came home agitated over

his deputy encounter at the convenience store, Thompson said. 

"When you are profiled, it's aggravating, especially when you aren't breaking the law," Thompson said. "There was

no need to shoot and kill him." 

Act. 

own independent investigation. 

own investigations." 

Body camera footage was captured from the incident, but the recording is not being released, Berry said. South

Carolina law states that body camera videos are not public records available under the Freedom of Information

Community activist Paul Guy said they plan to file a civil lawsuit against the Sheriff's Office after conducting their

"Especially at the hands of law enforcement, it's paramount that the citizens understand what took place and how

things transpired," Guy said. "We are encouraged this time that we have ability and the expertise to conduct our

The State Law Enforcement Division is investigating the shooting. This is the Greenville County Sheriff's Office's

first deputy-involved shooting this year. The agency had five last year, said SLED spokesman Thom Berry. 

Statewide, there have been 10 officer-involved shootings. There were 49 last year. 

The Sheriff's Office has also declined to name the four deputies involved, though they were all placed on

administrative leave pending the outcome of an investigation, per department protocol. 

It remains unclear how many shots were fired and how many times Massey was struck. 

"I don't know how many fired, but four were present at the incident," Flood said. "That doesn't necessarily mean

that all four shot." 

necessarily the ones firing, Flood said. 

Typically, the Sheriff's Office places deputies on leave if they are present at an officer-involved shooting but not

Berry said only one in-car dashboard camera was activated during the shooting because only one vehicle

responded to the scene with lights and sirens, which automatically prompts the camera to start recording. And

that vehicle, he said, was parked in front of the home whereas the incident primarily took place behind the home. 

A wreath of white flowers was hung on the front porch of the home earlier in the day. Below it, a small strip of

yellow caution tape sat from where law enforcement had carried out an investigation Monday night. 

William Smith, who lives a few houses down on 3rd Avenue, said mostly older residents live there so there's not

much law enforcement activity. 

"I heard like four or five shots, I thought somebody was shooting fireworks it was like pop, pop, pop, pop, pop,"

William Smith said, who added he's lived there for 14 years. "We ain't had this kind of action in a long time." 

Kenya Young, Massey's mother-in-law, said her grandchildren are struggling to cope with knowing their father is

gone. 

got him going to some counseling." 

"He'll tell me, 'I'm sad. I miss my daddy. Police killed my daddy,'" Young said. "But his school is pretty good. We've

"Why did they have to kill him? He was a father and a husband and a provider, and now three children have to grow

up without their father for a senseless crime that the police have caused." 

Tiffany Copeland 

Tiffany Copeland speaks about the shooting death of her husband, Jermaine Massey, on Wednesday. 

Families &family life; Convenience stores; Cameras; Criminal investigations; Law

enforcement; Deadly force; Camcorders; State laws

Location:

South Carolina Kenya

Publication title:

The Greenville News; Greenville, S.C.

Jermaine Massey's wife 

CAPTION:  

JOSH MORGAN/Staff 
 
 

Sheriff's office: Deputies followed policy in - Associated Press State
Wire: South Carolina (SC) - May 2, 2018
May 2, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: South Carolina (SC)

GREENVILLE, S.C. (AP) — A South Carolina sheriff's office says its deputies did nothing wrong in the
fatal shooting earlier this year of a man armed with a knife.

Jermaine M assey
WSPA-T V reports that an internal investigation into the March shooting of Jermaine M assey
found that Greenville County deputies didn't violate departmental policy and procedures.

Sheriff Will Lewis has said deputies responded to a disturbance at Massey's home and found
several people who were "potential hostage victims." Lewis said Massey refused to drop the knife,
and an officer fired when the man came toward deputies.

Massey was black. State police said the officer involved is white.

T he State Law Enforcement Division and local prosecutors are still evaluating the case.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
New report does little to clear up disputed - Post and Courier, The
(Charleston, SC) - May 2, 2018 - page 006
May 2, 2018 | Post and Courier, The (Charleston, SC) | Andrew Knapp aknapp@postandcourier.com | Page
006

For weeks, Greenville County authorities had withheld a report about deputies’ fatal shooting of a
man gripped by a mental health crisis.

But the document’s release Tuesday shed little light on the authorities’ tactics that have raised
questions among the man’s loved ones.

Jermaine M assey
Jermaine M assey, 35, was shot March 19 during a confrontation with sheriff’s deputies who
responded to a 911 call in which Massey expressed a fear he would commit violence.

“I feel like I’m going to do something stupid,” Massey said during the call. “I feel it in my ... heart. ... I
feel like I’m going to kill my whole family.”

Released by the Greenville County Sheriff’s Office after a request from T he Post and Courier, the
incident report gives no detail on how the deputies handled the situation. In its primary narrative
portion a deputy wrote only “I responded to the incident location.”

T he deputies went to Massey’s Third Avenue home about 5:15 p.m. that day.

Much of the report reflected the phone call in which Massey said his children and fiancee were with
him.

Massey said he “had multiple mental disabilities and was afraid that he would flip out and hurt
someone,” the document added.

His children are heard talking in the background. Massey told them he loved them.

“T he last thing (dispatchers) heard was a small child crying,” the report stated.

Sheriff Will Lewis has told T he Greenville News that responding deputies approached the situation
as a potential hostage crisis. T hey negotiated with Massey for up to 10 minutes and tried less-
than-lethal tactics to bring Massey down before he charged at them behind the home, Lewis has
told the newspaper. He was carrying something that looked like a butcher’s knife, the sheriff said,
prompting the gunfire.

T he Sheriff’s Office has given few other details and had refused to make public the incident report.

Lewis was suspended in April after his indictment on misconduct and obstruction charges amid an
unrelated state investigation into alleged sexual harassment.

T he State Law Enforcement Division also is investigating the shooting.

Massey’s family members have said publicly the deputies’ negotiation methods fell short. T hey
called for increased training on how to approach mentally ill suspects.

T he confrontation consisted of the authorities repeatedly shouting “Drop the knife,” before they
shot him, the family has said after watching police video of the ordeal.

T he Post and Courier has requested access to the footage.

T amika Gordon, a sister of Massey’s, has said her brother did not charge the deputies.

“It was just a step,” Gordon said, according to T he Greenville News.

Lewis has said deputies are trained to keep up their guard during encounters with people wielding
knives. Anybody within 30 feet can quickly close in, he said, and do serious harm.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Post and Courier. All Rights Reserved.

 

 
"These are difficult, real-life situations. This is not TV. The last thing anybody wants to happen is for somebody to

get hurt, either an officer or an individual member of our community, but they occur in today's world." 

Solicitor Walt Wilkins 

Solicitor Walt Wilkins said Thursday that four Greenville County deputies were justified in their actions when they

fatally shot a man they said charged at them with a knife. 

The announcement came nearly three months after Jermaine Massey was shot behind his home March 19 and

accompanied the release of body camera footage from three cameras worn by deputies during the ordeal. The

encounter lasted about six minutes and mostly consisted of deputies saying "drop the knife" and Massey not

complying. 

Deputies went to Massey's home in the Poe Mill community after he first called 911 seeking help during an

apparent mental health crisis. He told a dispatcher he had bipolar disorder and had thoughts of harming his family. 

The SLED investigation found that Massey was never medically diagnosed with bipolar disorder, and that he was

intoxicated with alcohol and a benzodiazepine at the time of the shooting. 

Interim Sheriff Johnny Mack Brown said the deputies involved followed policy. 

"I feel very comfortable with the outcome of this situation," he said. "I wish it never happened. We didn't create the

situation, we responded to the situation." 

Body cameras reveal new details 

holds the knife to his chest. 

The footage shows deputies surrounding Massey as he sits on his back steps holding a knife. At one point, he

Once he stands up, he does not respond to verbal commands to drop the knife, video shows. Deputies deployed a

Taser, followed by several more. None of them seemed to have any effect, Wilkins said. 

Deputies in some of the body camera videos are heard saying that some of the Taser barbs never struck him,

rendering the shots ineffective. Brown said Massey's loose clothing prevented the Taser barbs from striking him. 

In the videos, Massey is seen groaning and pacing but never releasing the knife from his grip. His heavy breathing

can be heard throughout the encounter. 

Deputies can be heard saying things like "Chill out, Jermaine," "Don't do it, buddy," and "Let us help you, man." 

Wilkins said the deputies tried to engage him in conversation but he did not respond to their requests. 

Later in the video, Massey paces back and forth, waving the knife in the air. He lets out several screams while

deputies continue to order him to drop the knife. 

At one point, Massey takes a few steps forward and raises the knife in the direction of deputies, video shows, and

three of the four deputies open fire. Massey then falls to the ground. He was later pronounced dead at the hospital. 

Eleven shots were fired, the SLED report states. 

As a result of the SLED findings, Wilkins said he found no evidence to suggest any criminal wrongdoing on the part

"There is almost no evidence that would support any kind of criminal charge against any of these officers that we

of deputies. 

could prove beyond a reasonable doubt," Wilkins said. 

History of the deputies involved 

The deputies involved —Master Deputy Wes Kilgore, Deputy Mark Dulude, Deputy Chris Bell and Deputy Jake

Lancaster —were all placed on paid administrative following the shooting. They were put back in service April 3

after an internal investigation was completed, according to personnel files obtained by The Greenville News

through a Freedom of Information Act request. 

Lancaster did not discharge his weapon but was on scene during the shooting, according to the Sheriff's Office. 

Dulude fired four rounds, Bell fired four rounds and Kilgore fired three rounds, according to the SLED report. 

Kilgore, who came to the Sheriff's Office in October 2012, had been involved in a prior deputy-involved shooting

while working for another law enforcement agency in Georgia, according to the SLED report. SLED agents were

provided a statement from the Georgia Bureau of Investigations in that case that stated "Deputy Kilgore acted

Lancaster was also involved in another shooting in 2017. He was among multiple deputies who responded to a

reported domestic situation involving a man with a gun chasing a woman on White Horse Road in Berea on July

appropriately." 

14. 

Ramiro Bravo Ramirez, 34, died after exchanging gunfire with deputies. Investigators determined Ramirez died

from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, though he was found with at least a dozen gunshot wounds.

Lancaster noticed Ramirez shooting at deputies, and Lancaster fired 10 shots after he arrived on scene, according

to documents obtained by The News. 

Lancaster and the others involved in that shooting were also cleared of any wrongdoing. 

The Sheriff's Office had withheld the names of the deputies involved in the Massey shooting until after Brown took

office in mid-April. Multiple requests for the names had been made previously. 

Community activists had also urged the Sheriff's Office to release the names of the deputies as a matter of

transparency to see whether any of the deputies had a pattern or history of deadly force. 

Records obtained by The News showed that while the deputies involved were up-to-date in training from the S.C.

Criminal Justice Academy, none of them had gone through Crisis Intervention Team training through the National

Alliance on Mental Illness, which is considered the highest level of mental health training available, according to

leaders with NAMI. 

said. 

Brown on Thursday said the Sheriff's Office is in the process of getting more deputies and dispatchers trained in

CIT. A class is scheduled for July, and a second is planned for December, which was the next available time, he

"Everybody is becoming bipolar today for some reason without justification or medical procedures," Brown said.

"We understand there is a lot of mental illness out there and we want to be able to handle that." 

Details from investigative files 

deputies, according to the report. 

In Massey's shooting, the small, fenced-in backyard left only about a 15-foot gap between Massey and the

"Massey pulled the knife up in a stabbing position and rushed unexpectedly towards the other deputies, giving

them little, if any, time to react," Lancaster wrote in a prepared statement to SLED agents. 

Massey had an interaction with another deputy about three to four hours earlier, according to the SLED report. 

A deputy saw Massey and thought he may have been drinking so she approached him to see if he was OK. He

appeared aggravated about being stopped and was allowed to walk back to his home after the deputy completed a

field sobriety test, the report states. 

Body camera footage from that earlier stop was also released Thursday. 

The video shows the deputy questioning Massey about how much he had to drink. 

"I stopped you because you were doubled over and I wanted to make sure you were OK," she says to Massey

before having him track her fingers with his eyes for a field sobriety test. 

Massey then asks if she wants to escort him to his house nearby. 

"I'm not going to escort you to your house. Listen to me, I'm staying here with you because I have to ask certain

questions in this situation when I get out with someone for a health reason," the deputy tells Massey. 

Massey tells the deputy he only had one Bud Light about 20 minutes before he was stopped. 

"You're not intoxicated at all?" the deputy asks. 

"No ma'am, I'm not. I promise you," Massey says before the deputy replies, "OK, well since you live so close, just

walk home, OK?" 

Back in the deputy's vehicle, she is heard saying to herself, "I'll make sure he doesn't fall on the road. He's not

stumbling, that's good. It's just his knee, I can't arrest him for that. He's definitely drunk." 

A toxicology report states Massey had a blood alcohol level of .157. The report also shows he had in his system

9.1ng/ml of midazolam, a benzodiazepine used as a preoperative medication. Family members have said Massey

was dealing with a leg injury that had been causing him pain. 

Side effects of midazolam include drowsiness, double vision, slurred speech, shaky movements and intellectual

impairments, according to Massey's toxicology report. The drug's warning label states that the medication should

not be combined with alcohol. 

front porch when deputies arrived March 19. 

Tiffany Copeland, who was Massey's longtime girlfriend and on scene when the shooting took place, was on the

"He called y'all. He's drunk," she is heard saying in one body camera video, directing the deputies to the back yard. 

She later told a SLED agent that moments before Massey called 911, he had told her, "You just don't care about

me." 

She told the agent that she "knew that he was drunk" and he took their two children outside to play. She went to

the front porch, and when she overheard Massey telling one child he didn't want to play, she told the child to come

In Massey's 911 call, he tells a dispatcher he suffers from bipolar disorder and was "fixing to do something stupid."

to the front yard, according to the report. 

He made remarks that he might kill his family. 

mental illness." 

illness, according to the SLED report. 

The SLED report states there was "no documentation located to indicate that Massey was ever diagnosed with a

Massey felt that he suffered from mental illness because his sister and brother were diagnosed with mental

Copeland told a SLED agent that the day of the shooting was the first time she had experienced him "breaking

down" the way he did, according to the report. 

Wilkins said Massey's family was allowed to view the body camera footage days after the shooting. He said the

process of investigating the case has been transparent. 

"These are difficult, real-life situations. This is not TV," Wilkins said. "The last thing anybody wants to happen is for

somebody to get hurt, either an officer or an individual member of our community, but they occur in today's world." 

U.A. Thompson, a community activist and Massey family representative, said he was not surprised by the outcome

of the investigation. 

"We are still going to fight to change this judicial system. Almost never do cops get convicted when they act in

error, which gives them a lot of confidence to keep doing what they're doing," Thompson said. 

He said the family still maintains that the deputies used excessive force, were not properly trained and escalated

the situation while on scene. 

have a tremendous problem in this country." 

"We still maintain our same course of action," Thompson said. "It simply speaks to the larger issue that we still

"These are difficult, real-life situations. This is not TV. The last thing anybody wants to happen is for somebody to

get hurt, either an officer or an individual member of our community, but they occur in today's world." 

Solicitor Walt Wilkins 

CAPTION:  

County Sheriff's Office deputies near Poe Mill in March. 

JOSH MORGAN/Staff 

A torn piece of yellow tape is left in front of the home of Jermaine Massey, who was shot and killed by Greenville

 
 


 
"My mind is gone. Your daddy's mind is gone. I don't want you to be around me right now, son. I don't. I feel like I'm

"If negotiation is, 'Drop it, drop it, drop it,' that's not negotiating, I'm sorry." 

going to kill my whole family." 

Jermaine Massey 

On a 911 call 

Traci Fant 

A community activist representing the family 

Jermaine Massey called for help. 

dispatcher he suffers from bipolar disorder. 

He dialed 911 to ask someone to take him away from his home before he hurt his family. He explained to a

The dispatcher on the 911 tape told him to stay calm. She said, "We're on the way to help you." 

Deputies arrived to find Massey on a back porch outside his 3rd Avenue home in Greenville County and began to

negotiate as he allegedly held a knife. 

Seven to 10 minutes later, he was shot and killed after deputies said he charged at them with a knife. 

The critical moments before Massey's death were revealed in a 911 call obtained by The Greenville News through a

Freedom of Information Act request. 

The call indicated the 35-year-old was having an apparent mental health crisis and had called authorities for help

before the March 19 shooting. He repeatedly told the dispatcher he was "fixing to do something stupid." 

"My mind is gone. Your daddy's mind is gone," Massey said to his son while on the phone with a dispatcher. "I don't

want you to be around me right now, son. I don't. I feel like I'm going to kill my whole family." 

Sheriff Will Lewis said Massey charged at the deputies with a knife sometime after they had already tried to get

him to put it down. His longtime girlfriend and children were brought away from the house, Lewis said, because

they were considered "potential hostage victims." 

Lewis said Massey appeared extremely agitated. 

Deputies had no other choice in the situation but to use lethal force, Lewis said. The State Law Enforcement

Division has launched an investigation, and the four deputies involved in the shooting were placed on leave. 

The 911 call recording ended before the shooting happened. 

Public records requests for video footage from the shooting have been denied. 

Meanwhile, Massey's family members and community activists are seeking justice. They said the 13th Circuit

Solicitor's Office brought them in Tuesday to show them the video footage. 

They told media they believed officers used excessive force and that the reported negotiating was not adequate.

Massey's sister, Tamika Gordon, spoke about the encounter Wednesday during a press conference. 

"He was pacing in circles," she said. "They just kept saying, 'Drop the knife.' Nobody ever said, 'Jermaine, what's

wrong? Jermaine, do you need an ambulance? Jermaine, what is it?' Nobody ever said that. The only thing they

were saying was, 'Jermaine, drop the knife. Jermaine, drop the knife. Jermaine, drop the knife.'" 

"And the more they said that, it's like the more of a meltdown he was having. He had the knife —whatever he had

—he had it to his chest. I can't say it was a knife because I can't tell that's what it was, but he did have it against his

chest." 

Massey before the shooting. 

Traci Fant, a community activist representing the family, said it didn't appear deputies tried to negotiate with

"If negotiation is, 'Drop it, drop it, drop it,' that's not negotiating, I'm sorry," Fant said. "No one tried to have a

conversation with Jermaine or ask what was wrong." 

Gordon said she could see Massey step toward the deputies in the video and then heard five shots. 

"It was just a step," Gordon said. "It wasn't no threat. It wasn't no charge." 

Sheriff Lewis, on the night of the shooting, addressed the media and spoke of law enforcement training as it

pertains to suspects armed with knives in close proximity. He said deputies are trained to know that suspects can

quickly make it to a deputy to harm him or her when they're within 30 feet. 

"They tried multiple times to get away from him as he was armed," Lewis said. "If somebody has a knife, they can

close that distance very quickly." 

be around anyone. 

In the 911 call, Massey said he had an argument with his longtime girlfriend, Tiffany Copeland, and didn't want to

"I'm asking for somebody to come help me off the premises," he told the dispatcher. 

The dispatcher then asked about his mental illness diagnosis. 

"Bipolar, and a little bit of schizophrenia, but I haven't been hearing any voices today," Massey said. 

The dispatcher replies: "If you would, try not to do anything before we get an officer there, OK?" 

Massey replies: "I will try not to, though I'm itching real bad." 

Dispatcher: "Do you want to stay on the phone, would that be easier for you?" 

Massey: "I feel like I'm getting ready to do something stupid." 

Dispatcher: "Listen to me, just calm down and we're going to send an officer there." 

Massey: "No, no, I just feel it. I feel it. I feel it in my (expletive) heart. I'm fixing to do something real stupid. And my

kids are out here, and I don't want my kids to see this (expletive)." 

Massey is then heard consoling his children. 

"Hey son, I love you. Just so you know, I love you," he said. 

Then, deputies can be heard on the 911 call, saying, "Don't do it. Don't do it. Drop the knife. Drop the knife" followed

by screams. 

Family members said that's when Massey was hit by Tasers. 

They said the whole ordeal stemmed from an earlier run-in with law enforcement. 

Massey came home from a convenience store agitated about an encounter with a deputy hours earlier. They said

he was "profiled" and "harassed" by a deputy who approached him and asked him questions about why he was

limping. Massey was using crutches and had been recovering from a leg injury, the family said. 

The Sheriff's Office has declined to provide information on the alleged prior encounter. 

Paton Blough, a Greenville mental health advocate and member of the National Alliance for Mental Illness, has

been a local leader in helping law enforcement agencies and detention centers improve how they handle those

suffering from mental illnesses. 

Blough, who has bipolar disorder, said many officers with the Greenville Police Department have taken NAMI's

Crisis Intervention Team training. He also said some deputies with the Sheriff's Office have gone through the

training, but he did not know how many. 

officers involved in the shooting had been trained. 

Calls to the Sheriff's Office were not returned regarding the crisis intervention training and whether any of the

Blough said Massey's shooting appears to mirror the very scenarios that officers examine during the training. 

Blough said the goal is to get law enforcement officers to take their time to learn more about a person's situation

before using force. 

"We're not trying to take away the right to use force," Blough said. "We're trying to give officers another option,

which is ultimately their brain and their knowledge." 

If de-escalation tactics weren't working, Blough said, it might have been feasible to fall back and call on a deputy

who has been through mental health training. 

"The knife scenario is exactly like the scenario we think of," Blough said. "'Hmm, this isn't working. Let's redirect.

Let's ask them some questions. What's your name? What's going on with you tonight? If that isn't working, change

your tone. If the lead deputy is not making progress, maybe his backup should talk to him. We teach tactical

pauses." 

Activists in Greenville are calling for the Sheriff's Office to find ways to improve de-escalation procedures, as well

as their encounters with people of color and people with mental illnesses. 

"We have to move this community away from diversity and inclusion language and really talk about race relations,"

community activist Paul Guy said. 

Guy said a group of community activist groups will hold a rally and march to the Solicitor's Office on April 28 to

encourage ways to create better relationships with law enforcement. 

"My mind is gone. Your daddy's mind is gone. I don't want you to be around me right now, son. I don't. I feel like I'm

"If negotiation is, 'Drop it, drop it, drop it,' that's not negotiating, I'm sorry." 

going to kill my whole family." 

Jermaine Massey 

On a 911 call 

Traci Fant 

A community activist representing the family 
 
 

South Carolina officers cleared in death of man - Associated Press State
Wire: South Carolina (SC) - June 14, 2018
June 14, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: South Carolina (SC) | JEFFREY COLLINS Associated Press

GREENVILLE, S.C. (AP) — Three police officers in South Carolina were justified shooting a man who
called 911 reporting he was having a mental crisis because he lunged at one of them with the knife,
a prosecutor said T hursday.

Jermaine Massey has said the fatal shooting shows Greenville County deputies

T he family of Jermaine M assey
need more training on how to deal with people suffering mental problems and need to solve issues
with less violence.

T he deputies showed restraint trying to talk to Massey as he stalked around the backyard of his
Greenville home thrusting the knife up and down, Solicitor Walt Wilkins said.

But five shocks from a Taser had "literally zero effect," Wilkins said.

And when Massey charged at a deputy with the knife, Wilkins said three of the four officers fired a
total of 11 shots, all captured on body camera video released after Wilkins' news conference.

"T he last thing anybody wants to happen is for somebody to get hurt, either an officer or an
individual member of our community," Wilkins said.

Massey, 35, called 911 to report that he was bipolar and having thoughts about harming his family
on March 19. T he body camera video shows Massey sitting on his back steps as officers arrive but
quickly standing up while holding the large knife.

Massey had a blood-alcohol level of 0.15 percent, nearly twice the legal limit to drive and traces of
midazolam, a prescription sedative often used before medical procedures, Wilkins said.

Massey's family and friends said they aren't happy with the prosecutor's decision.

"We are still going to fight to change this judicial system. Almost never do cops get convicted when
they act in error, which gives them a lot of confidence to keep doing what they're doing," U.A.
T hompson, a community activist speaking on behalf of Massey's family, told T he Greenville News.

Interim Greenville County Sheriff Johnny Mack Brown said he is trying to get training for as many
deputies as he can over the next several months.

"We understand there is a lot of mental illness out there and we want to be able to handle it,"
Brown said.

Wilkins said he showed the family the body camera video of the shooting within days because he

wanted them to understand what the officers were dealing with and to answer their questions the
best he could.

___

Follow Jeffrey Collins on T witter at https://twitter.com/JSCollinsAP . Read his work at
https://apnews.com/search/jeffrey%20collins .

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
It is impossible to watch the video of Jermaine Massey's shooting by Greenville County Sheriff's deputies and not

feel compassion for everyone involved. 

Massey was clearly in emotional distress when he called sheriff's deputies to his Greenville home in March, fearful

that he might hurt himself or family members. What followed was a tense standoff between Massey –who refused

to drop a knife he was holding –and deputies urging him to surrender the weapon. 

After what seemed like an eternity, Massey was shot to death when he lunged toward one of the deputies. After an

internal investigation and an investigation by the state's top law enforcement division, the officers were cleared of

any wrongdoing. 

suffering from mental illness. 

The tragedy underscores the need for more training of law enforcement officers in how to deal with suspects

The four deputies involved in the shooting had not taken Crisis Intervention Team training, which is provided by the

National Alliance of Mental Illness, according to a report by Daniel Gross of The Greenville News. CIT training is an

extensive week-long class that helps officers recognize the signs of mental illness and gives them strategies to

deal with suspects suffering from mental health issues. It is offered by the National Alliance on Mental Illness. 

Though we'll never know for certain, local mental health advocate Paton Blough believes the outcome may have

been different if the officers involved had taken the 40-hour course. Blough is encouraged that the Greenville

County Sheriff's Department has two classes scheduled in the coming months for deputies. One of the classes had

been scheduled prior to Massey's death, he said. 

Blough has seen the videotape of the shooting and believes the officers did the best they could under the

circumstances. He said officers receive limited training in the police academy on dealing with mentally ill

suspects. 

During CIT training, officers learn to slow down —if possible —when dealing with a mentally ill suspect. By

deploying tasers in Massey's direction, the standoff was escalated. Officers learn ways to de-escalate their

interaction with suspects in CIT classes. They are also encouraged to redirect the suspect's attention away from

the standoff and on to other things, such as relationships with family members. 

"You can never 100 percent say what would have happened," said Blough. "But I feel fairly strongly there could

have been a different outcome had those officers received the training." 

Interim Greenville County Sheriff Johnny Mack Brown seems committed to ensuring that more deputies receive

the training, said Blough. 

Further, Sheriff's Brown's release of the video of the shooting shows his commitment to running a department that

is transparent in its dealings with the public. While the video is difficult to watch, the deputies can be seen

behaving in a professional manner, urging the suspect to drop his weapon and attempting to use a taser gun to

temporarily disable Massey. 

Sometimes, it takes a tragic incident to bring about change. If we learn anything from Massey's death, it is that

police officers need all the training they can get when it comes to interacting with suspects suffering from mental

illness. Such training will give officers more confidence to take on the difficult jobs they do daily. 

Dr. U.A. Thompson speaks for the family of Jermaine Massey during a press conference outside the Greenville

County courthouse June 15 to respond to the news that the solicitor has cleared the deputies involved from any

Subject:

Sieges; Shootings; Sheriffs; Criminal investigations; Law enforcement; Mental health

wrongdoing in the shooting death of Massey. 

BART BOATWRIGHT/greenville news 
 
 

South Carolina sheriff: Deputy fatally shoots man - Associated Press:
Greenville Metro Area (SC) - March 20, 2018
March 20, 2018 | Associated Press: Greenville Metro Area (SC)

GREENVILLE, S.C. (AP) — A sheriff's deputy has shot and killed a man with a knife in South Carolina.

Greenville County Sheriff Will Lewis told news outlets the man was killed after he charged at
deputies Monday afternoon.

Lewis says deputies had been called to a disturbance and found several people in a home who were
"potential hostage victims."

Lewis says several minutes of negotiations and the use of non-lethal means failed to convince the
man to drop the knife. An officer fired when the man came toward deputies.

T he coroner's office said the suspect was 35-year-old Jermaine M assey
man. State Law Enforcement Division spokesman T hom Berry said the officer was a white man.
His name wasn't immediately released.

Jermaine Massey of Greenville, a black

Lewis says the deputy has been placed on administrative leave.

Copyrig ht 2018 Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

 
Fatal shooting raises questions about mental - Associated Press State
Wire: South Carolina (SC) - May 5, 2018
May 5, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: South Carolina (SC)

GREENVILLE, S.C. (AP) — T he four deputies involved in the shooting death of a South Carolina man
who called 911 for help during a mental health crisis aren't listed as officers who have participated
in what's considered the most thorough training for such situations.

T he Greenville News reports that records it obtained show the four deputies with the Greenville
County Sheriff's Office employees aren't among those who completed the weeklong training
spearheaded by the National Alliance on Mental Illness.

Deputies shot and killed 35-year-old Jermaine M assey
help with a mental health crisis.

Jermaine Massey on March 19th after Massey called 911 for

Interim Sheriff Johnny Mack Brown released the names of the four deputies involved in the
Jermaine Massey in "an effort to maintain transparency," the sheriff's
shooting of 35-year-old Jermaine M assey
office said in a statement. T hose involved were Master Deputy Wes Kilgore and Deputies Chris
Bell, Mark Dulude and Jake Lancaster. Lancaster was on scene but didn't fire a gun, the sheriff's
office said.

During Crisis Intervention Team training, participants learn about the signs and symptoms of
mental illnesses, who to recognize in crisis situations, safe de-escalation strategies and use of
community resources. NAMI offers the 40-hour class to law enforcement officers for free.

Kilgore, Bell, Dulude and Lancaster had taken a two-hour mandatory mental health course through
the S.C. Criminal Justice Academy, according to records obtained by T he News after the officers'
names were made public.

Ken Dority, the executive director of Greenville's chapter of NAMI, said the NAMI training is the
best training available to officers.

Deputies shot and killed Massey on March 19th after Massey called 911 for help with a mental
health crisis. Massey had told a dispatcher he suffered from bipolar disorder and was "fixing to do
something stupid."

T he sheriff at the time, Will Lewis, said deputies found Massey in the backyard of his home, holding
what appeared to be a butcher's knife. He also said it was a potential hostage situation because at
least five people were inside the home.

Lewis said deputies spent seven to 10 minutes negotiating with Massey and using non-lethal
tactics to apprehend him. Lewis, who is on suspension for issues not related to this case, said
deputies shot and killed Massey after he charged at the deputies with the knife.

Family members and community activists have said the shooting was unjustified and was the result
of authorities' inability to properly handle someone who was having a mental breakdown.

T he four deputies involved were placed on administrative leave. T hey were cleared of wrongdoing
and returned to duty following an internal investigation.

T he State Law Enforcement Division is still investigating the shooting, spokesman T hom Berry said
Friday.

___

Information from: T he Greenville News, http://www.greenvillenews.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
The family of a man killed in a deputy-involved shooting last month is urging the Greenville County Sheriff's Office

to release the names of the deputies involved. 

They've also asked the Federal Bureau of Investigations to look into the case, the family announced in a news

conference outside the Greenville County Law Enforcement Center on Friday. 

The Greenville County Coroner's Office ruled Jermaine Massey's death a homicide on Thursday. 

Massey, 35, was shot behind his 3rd Avenue home in the Poe Mill community on March 19 after calling 911 to seek

help during an apparent mental health crisis. 

"We're still going to keep coming down here until justice is served. We will do this no matter who is in that office,"

said U.A. Thompson, a community activist representing the family. "If it's wrong, it's wrong. If it's right, it's right. We

have to fight for justice, Justice for Jermaine. Release those names so that this family can get help with closure." 

Thompson said knowing the deputies' names will help shine light into the deputies' disciplinary files to see if

there's a pattern of improper use of force. 

"My brother is gone. He's not coming back, so where do we go from there?" said Massey's sister, Tamika Gordon.

"We do need the names. I think it's imperative. We all think it's imperative. The community deserves it." 

Massey left behind three children ages 2, 5, and 8 as well as a longtime girlfriend whom he was planning to marry,

the family said. 

killing him. 

During the 911 call, Massey told a dispatcher he had bipolar disorder and that he was "fixing to do something

stupid." He asked for someone to come take him away from his home, where his family was at the time. 

Sheriff Will Lewis has said deputies responded there for a reported disturbance and found Massey armed with a

knife at the house. He said Massey charged at the deputies with the knife before deputies fired and struck him,

The four deputies involved were placed on administrative leave pending the outcome of an internal investigation.

The State Law Enforcement Division is also investigating. 

Thompson said the FBI has agreed to look into the case. 

Solicitor's Office to seek the names of the deputies involved. 

Initial requests for the identities were denied. 

The Greenville News has sent Freedom of Information Act requests to the Sheriff's Office and the 13th Circuit

"We have to have transparency," Thompson said. "Is there not a shred of humanity left, where we hurt when

someone else hurts?" 
 
 


 
"It's a sad day when the person that calls law enforcement for help is actually shot and killed by law enforcement." 

A man is dead, and four Greenville County deputies have been placed on leave after an officer-involved shooting in

Deputies said Jermaine Massey, 35, charged at them with a knife after they responded to Massey's home on 3rd

Jermaine Massey's mother 

the Poe Mill community Monday. 

Avenue for a reported disturbance. 

Massey was struck at least once and was taken to Greenville Memorial Hospital where he died. 

The State Law Enforcement Division was asked to investigate. The four deputies involved have been placed on

administrative leave pending the outcome of an internal investigation, per department protocol. 

"We're very much still investigating," SLED spokesman Thom Berry said. "We left the scene late last night and are

working the case today. We are still in the process of collecting information." 

Greenville County Sheriff Will Lewis said a 911 call came in about 5:31 p.m. about a disturbance at 234 3rd Avenue. 

He said about 10 minutes later, deputies got to the scene and found a man who was "very agitated" and armed

with "something similar to a butcher's knife." Officers tried to talk to him to get the knife out of his hand, Lewis

said. 

quickly as they could, Lewis said. 

There were at least five people in the home, "potential hostage victims," so deputies tried to get them out as

Deputies called for backup around 5:45 p.m., he said. When the other deputies arrived and negotiations failed,

deputies tried "less lethal options." Those options also failed, Lewis said. 

A short while later, the man turned to the officers and began to charge at them with a knife, Lewis said. 

Berry said a SLED agent was present for Massey's autopsy. He said evidence is being taken to a lab for testing as

part of an investigation. 

He said only one dashboard camera was recording from a deputy's vehicle. 

Only one patrol vehicle had its lights and sirens activated, which automatically prompts the in-car video camera to

start recording, Berry said. That vehicle was parked in front of the home and the incident primarily took place

behind the home, Berry said. The other vehicles that responded did not have lights and sirens activated so the

dashboard cameras were not recording. 

Berry said he was unsure if the deputies were wearing body cameras. 

Sgt. Ryan Flood, a Sheriff's Office spokesman, declined to release the identities of the deputies involved. A request

for the 911 call was also denied. The Greenville News has also requested a copy of the dashboard camera from the

scene. 

release the tapes." 

Bruce Wilson, founder of Fighting Injustice Together, said Massey's family has reached out to the nonprofit to seek

assistance in getting the Sheriff's Office and SLED to release video footage and 911 communications. 

"The biggest focus now is body cam footage being released and the 911 tape," Wilson said. "That's the main thing,

to make sure nothing is compromised. If everything happened the way the Sheriff's Office says it happened, then

The neighborhood was quiet Tuesday morning. A strand of yellow caution tape was still tied around a stop sign on

Talasha Shaw said Monday night she learned of the incident because she was coming to see her friend, who was

When she arrived, deputies were on the scene. Yellow crime scene tape blocked traffic from entering the street

3rd Avenue. 

Massey's girlfriend. 

lined by mill houses. 

Shaw said she called her friend to ask what happened "because usually nothing really happens on this street." 

"I'm not going to say it was scary," Shaw said. "It was more of a surprise because it's not really stuff you hear of

happening to one of your family members or friends." 

Shaw said Massey's girlfriend is looking for further explanation of what happened. 

"You can't expect her to smile or whatever. She just wants answers and to know what's the next step and what

we've got to do to get this resolved," Shaw said. "Keep her and her family and his family in your prayers." 

In front of Massey's home Tuesday was a tricycle and small child's bicycle. A woman sobbing on Massey's front

porch declined to comment. 

Tuesday. 

Wilson said Massey's family is already mourning the loss of Massey's grandfather, with a funeral taking place

"That's what was going on with him before this happened," Wilson said. 

He said once the family has concluded the funeral for Massey's grandfather, they would turn their focus to seeking

answers in the officer-involved shooting. 

"She's sad, she's upset," Wilson said. "She's lost right now. She doesn't know what's going on." 

Wilson released the following statement from Massey's mother: "It's a sad day when the person that calls law

enforcement for help is actually shot and killed by law enforcement. As the family, we simply seek truth, inclusion

and transparency from all investigating agencies, and as such we would ask that the body-camera footage and

911 tape be released within 48 hours." 

The shooting marks South Carolina's 10th officer-involved shooting this year, Berry said. 

The most recent fatal shooting involving the Sheriff's Office was Nov. 19, 2017, when four deputies were placed on

leave after firing at 27-year-old Jacob McCarty at the end of a vehicle chase. The 13th Circuit Solicitor's Office

cleared the deputies of any criminal wrongdoing in that case. 

Authorities said deputies used less-than-lethal tactics to subdue McCarty first before McCarty brandished a pistol

and the deputies fired shots. 

On Oct. 16, 2017, 32-year-old Michael Chappell was killed during what was described by authorities as a hostage

situation in Simpsonville. Greenville County deputies fired at Chappell when he came out of a house with a

hostage. The hostage was not injured. 

In February 2017, deputies shot and killed Jason Mendez, 37, of Fountain Inn, after demanding that he get out of a

vehicle. Deputies were cleared in that case months later. 

"It's a sad day when the person that calls law enforcement for help is actually shot and killed by law enforcement." 

Greenville County Sheriff's Department officers investigate the scene of an officer-involved shooting on Monday. 

Jermaine Massey's mother 

CAPTION:  

JOSH MORGAN/Staff 
 
 


 
"After watching the body camera video of the Jermaine Massey Tasing and shooting, I believe that had the

deputies on scene been Crisis Intervention Team certified, his death may have been avoided." 

Founder of the mental health awareness organization Rehinge and a member of the NAMI South Carolina state

Paton Blough 

board 

episodes. 

them with a knife. 

A South Carolina mental health expert says he is "confident" Crisis Intervention Team training would have changed

the outcome in the shooting death of Jermaine Massey. 

Bill Lindsey, the executive director of the National Alliance on Mental Health, said the organization's free CIT

training teaches law enforcement officers specifically on how to handle those in crisis experiencing mental health

Massey, 35, was shot and killed outside his Poe Mill community home March 19 after deputies said he charged at

He called 911 to seek help during a mental breakdown, telling a dispatcher he had a bipolar disorder. None of the

four deputies involved had been through the 40-hour CIT training course. 

Solicitor Walt Wilkins released bodycam footage from the shooting and announced Thursday he found no evidence

of criminal wrongdoing on behalf of the deputies involved. 

Lindsey viewed the footage Friday and called the shooting "incredibly disturbing." He said he believes the shooting

would have been prevented had the deputies been trained in CIT. 

"You never know what's going to happen, but I'm confident we would have had a different outcome if a trained

officer who knows how to de-escalate a problem had been there. That's the reason we do the training," Lindsey

said. "It's incredibly disturbing on our end that something like this happens, especially when there is an opportunity

to get trained and be able to de-escalate somebody in crisis." 

Lindsey said officers who have had such training understand tactics to re-direct the focus of someone in a crisis

and get them to think about things other than the situation at hand to calm them down and get them detained. 

"In most situations, you're trying to come up with something that the person can relate to other than the situation

they're in right now," he said. 

means to get him to comply, Lindsey said. 

While saying "drop the knife" indicated what the deputies wanted Massey to do, the tactic wasn't the appropriate

Lindsey added that NAMI has had "tremendous success" with the Greenville Police Department and getting police

officers trained to reduce overall crisis-related incidents. 

About a month before Greenville County deputies shot and killed Jermaine Massey, his older brother had a similar

run-in with law enforcement but a very different outcome. 

Tamika Gordon, Massey's sister, said her older brother was having a mental breakdown in his Greenville home

earlier this year. He was breaking out windows and swinging a wooden beam. Greenville police officers responded,

took him into custody and admitted him into a mental health facility. 

Gordon said the officers showed concern for his safety, asking him how they could help him and what he needed.

After distracting him, they were able to restrain him. 

"They came with a sense of really wanting to help," Gordon said. 

She spoke out Friday, a day after the announcement that the four deputies involved in the Massey shooting were

cleared. In the video, deputies are seen gathering around Massey while he was in his back yard with a knife. At one

point, he holds it to his chest. 

video shows. 

The confrontation went on for about six minutes. Deputies tried to use Tasers on him, and they didn't work. The

deputies repeatedly told him to "drop the knife" until Massey took steps toward one of them with a knife raised,

He was shot and killed. Eleven shots were fired, according to the report from the State Law Enforcement Division. 

Family members said Friday the announcement "reopened wounds" and further stressed the need for deputies to

receive proper Crisis Intervention Team training led by NAMI. 

"What are we supposed to say to this hurting family? Their wounds were reopened," U.A. Thompson, a family

representative, said Friday during a news conference outside the Greenville County courthouse. "He will not be the

last case. We must enforce this demand that CIT training be mandated on a state level." 

Gordon said her other brother's encounter with law enforcement was when he was exhibiting erratic behavior

inside his home. He even slapped a police officer at one point during the ordeal, she said. 

He has since been committed to a mental health facility and diagnosed with bipolar disorder, she said. Gordon

declined to provide her brother's name. 

She said the differences in how the encounters ended up further point to the disparity in how law enforcement

officers are trained. 

"A lot of time, pointing out your gun and shooting doesn't help," she said. 

Sheriff Johnny Mack Brown said Thursday the Sheriff's Office is in the process of getting more deputies through

CIT training. One class is scheduled for July, another is set for December. Brown said Thursday he recognized the

importance of such training given the prevalence of mental health issues across the country. 

NAMI members have been working with the Sheriff's Office to find opportunities for more deputies to be trained,

Lindsey said. Classes are scheduled across the state throughout the year, and Lindsey said he hopes deputies can

find available class slots in other jurisdictions. 

Records obtained by The Greenville News in May through the Freedom of Information Act showed that 106

Greenville County Sheriff's Office employees had completed the CIT training. The agency has about 450 sworn

deputies. 

The four deputies involved in the March 19 shooting had not taken the CIT training, though they were up-to-date

with training through the state Criminal Justice Academy, which includes a two-hour mental illness class,

according to Maj. Florence McCants, a spokeswoman for the academy. 

NAMI's CIT training for law enforcement is a 40-hour class taken in the span of a week, Lindsey said. 

The Greenville Police Department has 154 officers trained in CIT out of nearly 200. 

A SLED report released by Wilkins shows Massey did not have a documented mental illness in his medical records,

though family members said several of Massey's relatives have been diagnosed with bipolar disorder. 

Paton Blough, founder of the mental health awareness organization Rehinge and a member of the NAMI South

Carolina state board, said he is encouraged that the Sheriff's Office has scheduled two upcoming CIT training

sessions. He said the agency is "headed in the right direction." 

"After watching the body camera video of the Jermaine Massey Tasing and shooting, I believe that had the

deputies on scene been Crisis Intervention Team certified, his death may have been avoided," Blough said in an

email. "I support these deputies and believe they only had intentions to help Mr. Massey. My heart, love and

prayers go out to the Massey family and to the officers involved in this tragedy." 

Traci Fant, an activist and another representative for the family, said many people today have mental illnesses that

go without diagnosis. She said deputies should have been trained to recognize that he was having a mental

breakdown and treated the situation as such. 

"They were not looking at him like a human being; they treated him like an animal," Fant said. 

Tiffany Copeland, Massey's longtime girlfriend, said she's struggling with grief, particularly with how to care for her

children in the wake of such a loss. She said her son continues to ask her, "Why did the police have to shoot

"What are you supposed to tell a 5-year-old?" Copeland said. 

"After watching the body camera video of the Jermaine Massey Tasing and shooting, I believe that had the

deputies on scene been Crisis Intervention Team certified, his death may have been avoided." 

Founder of the mental health awareness organization Rehinge and a member of the NAMI South Carolina state

Daddy?" 

Paton Blough 

board 

CAPTION:  

Tiffany Copeland, who is the mother of Jermaine Massey's children, wipes away tears during a press conference

outside the Greenville County courthouse Friday to respond to the news that the solicitor has cleared the deputies

involved from any wrongdoing in the shooting death of Massey. 

BART BOATWRIGHT/Staff 
 
 


SHOTS, CHAOS: 1 dead, 22 injured at Trenton arts - Star-Ledger, The
(Newark, NJ) - June 18, 2018
June 18, 2018 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ) | Sophie Nieto-Munoz, Paige Gross and Kevin Shea

A burst of violence that injured 22 people at a community arts festival in Trenton early Sunday
morning — including 17 people who were shot — began when several people started shooting one
another in an apparent gang-related dispute, authorities say. T he incident left one of the alleged
gunmen dead.

T ahaji Wells
T ahaji Wells , 33, was shot and killed by police after allegedly exchanging fire with at least two
other suspects at the Art All Night festival, Mercer County Prosecutor Angelo Onofri said during a
news conference Sunday evening. T he other suspected gunmen remained hospitalized, Onofri
said.

Prior to the shooting, fights broke out inside and outside Roebling Wire Works, where the annual
event was held. Police attempted to disperse the crowd and urged the organizers to shut down the
festival, Onofri said.

“T hose individuals continued to loiter and additional fights broke out, and then the shooting
occurred,” Onofri said, noting the suspects first shot at each other before police opened fire.

Onofri said two other suspects, Amir Armstrong and another he did not identify, were in the
hospital in critical and stable condition, respectively. He did not detail the charges facing the two.

T wo other people who were in critical condition Sunday — including a 13-year-old boy shot in the
melee — were listed in stable condition Sunday afternoon, Onofri said.

Seventeen people were taken to Capital Health Regional Medical Center in T renton, spokeswoman
Kate Stier said. Some were released later Sunday.

It is possible that some victims were injured by cops’ bullets as officers were shooting at the
suspects, officials said. How many shots were fired in all is still under investigation, they said.

Gov. Phil Murphy made a brief visit to Capital Health Regional Medical Center, where many of the
shooting victims were taken Sunday. He also spoke during a Sunday service at the Galilee Baptist
Church in T renton, where the governor offered words of encouragement and prayers to the
community.

“We can rise above this,” he told those in attendance.

INSPIRAT IONAL EVENT  T URNS T O CHAOS

T he event, billed as “24 hours of community, creativity, and inspiration” and held at the historic

Roebling Wire Works building on South Clinton Avenue, turned to chaos shortly before 3 a.m. An
estimated 1,000 people were at the event at that hour.

People ran into nearby streets as police descended on the building and alternately looked for
shooters and treated victims.

Irvin Higgenbotham, a resident who said he comes to the event every year, said he was walking
inside the event with his bike when he heard the shots going off.

“It was like, pow, pow, pow and then I was laying down on the ground,” he said.

A bullet struck his leg, he said, and a woman who was at the event helped him until he was able to
be treated. Higgenbotham returned to the scene of the shooting at about 8:45 a.m. Sunday, after
being released from the hospital, to find out what happened, and how he got caught in the middle
of the shooting, he said.

Onofri described a chaotic and confusing scene early on: Trenton police were swamped with 911
calls reporting a shooting inside the venue, and the first police officers on scene radioed they
needed critical assistance and backup.

T renton police were working off-duty security at the event, and there were no metal detectors
inside the building, authorities said. T he event occurs both inside and outdoors.

Authorities said Wells was carrying a handgun with an extended magazine — a gun that is illegal to
possess in New Jersey. It was one of several guns recovered at the scene.

According to authorities, Wells was sentenced in 2004 to 18 years in state prison after pleading
guilty to aggravated manslaughter in the fatal shooting of 22-year-old Robert McNair during a
dispute over who should drive a car Wells had driven from a local bar. Wells was 17 at the time of
his killing, authorities said.

Records show that in 2010, Wells — still serving time for the 2002 killing — was sentenced to six
more years after pleading guilty to a second-degree racketeering charge following a prosecution
by the state Attorney General’s Office.

In that case, state prosecutors said Wells had helped David “Duke” Allen, the imprisoned leader of
the Bloods’ Nine Trey Gangsters faction, run his gang from behind bars. T he Attorney General’s
Office has described Wells as an alleged Bloods gang member.

He was released from prison in February, records show.

A search of state court records did not show any prior felony convictions for Armstrong, one of
two surviving alleged gunmen.

SHOT S INSIDE, T HEN OUT SIDE

Witnesses who spoke to NJ Advance Media say they heard shots fired inside the building first

before the gunfire migrated outside.

“I’m still in shock, all that happened all around me,” said Edward “NJ Weedman” Forchion, who was
at the event Saturday night and took videos of the scene.

He said he was passing out flyers and taking photos when “all hell broke loose.” Forchion said he
heard 26 shots. T he gunfire started inside the building and then continued outside, he said.

“T here were people that fell and people stepped over them, people that ran into cars, people were
scrambling,” he said.

Videos posted on social media Sunday showed police and attendees huddling behind cars and
helping the wounded. Maurice Lennon, 31, said he wanted to get one last look at the art inside the
building with his friend early Sunday when he heard gunfire.

“We heard the first shots ring out inside the art gallery. T he first shot, then the second shot before
it resonated that: Wow that’s gunfire,” Lennon, of Trenton said in a phone interview Sunday. “You
saw the doors bust open, everyone starting running out and panicking. I ended up getting tripped
and fell and I ended up crawling.”

Lennon said he has cuts on his legs and arms from crawling and being stepped on by other people
fleeing the shooting.

“I’ve gone to this event for several years. I’ve been going for the past several years, never anything
like this,” Lennon said. “I’ve always bragged that this is Trenton’s best event … it’s always peaceful
I’ve always felt safe.”

Organizers of Art All Night could not be reached Sunday, but a message posted on Facebook said
the rest of the event would be canceled.

T he event, now in its 12th year, draws thousands.

T renton’s mayor-elect, state Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, D-15th Dist., issued a statement
saying he attended Art All Night on Saturday, and was unsure about the popular event’s future.

“I hope that Art All Night does continue but we are going to have to reevaluate security measures
in the future,” he said. “It will be a top priority of my administration to make Trenton a safer city.”

NJ Advance Media staff writers Bill Duhart, Karen Yi and Thomas Moriarty contributed to this
report.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Star-Ledg er. All Rights Reserved. Used by NewsBank with Permission.

 
1 dead, 17 wounded at festival - Plain Dealer, The (Cleveland, OH) - June
18, 2018 - page A1
June 18, 2018 | Plain Dealer, The (Cleveland, OH) | Mihir Zaveri | Page A1

One person was killed and at least 17 people were shot early Sunday at a cherished all-night arts
festival in T renton, New Jersey, in what may have been a neighborhood dispute unrelated to the
event, authorities said.

T he person who was killed, a 33-year-old man, was believed to have been shot dead by police and
was one of multiple gunmen.

He was identified as Tahaji Wells
conference Sunday evening.

T ahaji Wells , Mercer County Prosecutor Angelo Onofri said during a press

T he shooting appeared to be a gang-related dispute, Onofri said.

Prior to the shooting, fights broke out inside and outside Roebling Wire Works, where the annual
event was held.

Police attempted to disperse the crowd and urged the organizers to shut down the festival, Onofri
said.

“T hose individuals continued to loiter and additional fights broke out, and then the shooting
occurred,” Onofri said, noting the suspects first shot at each other before police opened fire.

Authorities said Wells was carrying a handgun with an extended magazine — a gun that’s illegal to
possess in New Jersey. It was one of several guns recovered at the scene.

Officials said the second gunman had been arrested,.

Authorities do not have any reason to believe the festival was targeted or that the shooting was an
act of terrorism, Casey DeBlasio, a spokeswoman for the prosecutor’s office, said. She said
authorities were investigating a nearby carjacking in connection with the shooting and that multiple
other motives were being considered.

Reed Gusciora, the mayor-elect, confirmed there had been unspecified threats of violence before
the shooting. He referred specifically to a Facebook post and said the city had increased the
number of police and fire department workers at the festival. He said an investigation would
determine whether police had responded appropriately to the threat.

For many Trenton residents, who have long endured entrenched issues with crime, poverty and
drugs, the shooting was a blow to the city’s revitalization as an arts hub. T he 24-hour arts festival,
Art All Night, was a centerpiece of that effort.

More than 25,000 people were projected to attend the festival, now in its 12th year. T he Roebling
Wire Works was once home to a factory that supplied wire cables for the Brooklyn and Golden
Gate bridges.

“T renton has been making a comeback. Art All Night has been the cornerstone of that comeback,”
said Krystal Knapp, who was volunteering at the event when the shooting took place. “It’s just
devastating to everyone in the community.”

Knapp, who runs the local news websites Planet Princeton and Planet T renton, was counting
attendees at the entrance to the building around 2:45 a.m. when she heard scuffling inside, then
screaming, and finally gun shots.

Droves of the thousand or so attendees scrambled for the door of the long, narrow building,
pushing Knapp to the ground and bruising and cutting her knees. Paintings and artwork were
knocked off the walls. A woman pulled Knapp behind a car as another woman nearby was shot in
the leg.

Knapp stayed behind the car as, 15 feet away, a gunman was shot and killed.

DeBlasio said four people, including a 13-year-old boy, were in critical condition. A total of 22
people were injured, including the 17 who were shot.

Kate Stier, a spokeswoman for Capital Health, which runs the hospital treating some of the victims,
said the others who were injured had been trampled.

“It saddens me that a public attack such as this is what has brought major attention to our capital
city on Father’s Day,” Mayor Eric Jackson said in a statement.

Gov. Phil Murphy arrived in Trenton on Sunday morning and spoke at Galilee Baptist Church about
the need for stricter gun laws.

“It’s yet another reminder of the senselessness of gun violence,” he said.

Last week he signed a package of gun control bills into law that would, among other measures,
require the seizure of firearms when a mental health professional determines someone poses a
threat, and require background checks for private gun sales.

New Jersey was ranked by the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence as second to California
in having the country’s most stringent gun restrictions. T he center was named for Gabrielle
Giffords, the former congresswoman who was gravely injured by gunfire in 2011.

Festival organizers said in a statement on Facebook they were “deeply saddened” and that rest of
the festival would be canceled. It was set to end at 3 p.m. Sunday. T hey did not respond to a
request for comment.

“Our hearts ache and our eyes are blurry but our dedication and resolve to building a better

T renton through community, creativity and inspiration will never fade,” the statement said. “We’re
still processing much of this and we don’t have many answers at this time but please know that our
staff, our volunteers, our artists and musicians all seem to be healthy and accounted for.”

NJ.com contributed

to this story

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Plain Dealer. All Rights Reserved. Used by NewsBank with Permission.

 
Second person charged in festival shooting - Hunterdon County
Democrat (Flemington, NJ) - June 21, 2018 - page A4
June 21, 2018 | Hunterdon County Democrat (Flemington, NJ) | Paige Gross and Gianluca D’Elia | Page A4

trenton

A second man has been charged in the Art All Night shooting that left one dead and up to 29
injured, Mercer County Prosecutor Angelo Onofri announced on T uesday.

Onofri made the announcement in a second-floor room of Friendship Baptist Church surrounded
by the state’s top law enforcement officials, clergy leaders and Trenton residents.

Davone White, 26, of T renton, faces multiple weapons offenses, including being in the possession
of a large-capacity magazine. He was being treated for injuries from the shooting, Onofri said

Amir Armstrong, charged on Sunday, is facing one count of possession of a weapon. T he
prosecutor’s office did not detail White’s, Armstrong’s, or T ahaij Wells’s exact roles or affiliations in
regards to the shooting. Wells was shot and killed by police in the exchange of gunfire.

Pastor John Taylor invited Onofri and other officials to join the Capital City Community Coalition to
discuss recent episodes of violence in Trenton and how to move forward. Onofri identified
neighborhood tension and disputes as a major motive in the shooting.

“We don’t get over this in one instance,” Taylor told the residents and community leaders. “No
mother births a child for them to become a gang member.”

Onofri said it’s unfortunate that residents are using guns to settle disputes, and that he
understands the effects gun violence has on families in T renton.

“It’s a hurt and a pain that never goes away, and I know all of you are hurting because of it every
day,” Onofri said.

Onofri also addressed concerns about a Facebook post that warned Art All Night festival-goers
about a shooting. He said the message had been posted by a teacher in Hamilton Township about
14 hours before the shooting occurred.

He added that the prosecutor’s office is attempting to get a formal statement from her, as she
was in North Carolina. Onofri urged others to call the police if they have inside information, instead
of posting on social media.

Attorney General Gurbir Grewal said lax gun laws in other states are to blame for weapons getting
into New Jersey and being used in criminal acts.

We are going to “name and shame” these other states with loose gun laws, Grewal said. He also
discussed targeting violent criminal gangs and aggressively prosecuting them to deter this type of
crime.

All law enforcement officers who spoke reiterated that the city shouldn’t back down from hosting
Art All Night and other opportunities for Trenton residents and visitors to come together. Officials
and organizers have talked of increased security, but Onofri promised it wouldn’t be “a militarized
state.”

Gusciora said there were only four Trenton police officers at the event because it was a peaceful
event that relied on a lot of volunteers for support.

“T his is a post-Parkland discussion,” Gusciora told NJ Advance Media after the news conference.

He said the city will have to work with community church leaders and non-profits and increase the
city’s recreation budget to give young people options outside of getting involved in violent
activities.

Onofri added that the artists and organizers waiting to retrieve their work from the scene should
be able to do so T uesday, if the investigation can be wrapped up.

“We will not accept our city being turned upside down,” Pastor Taylor said.

Paige Gross, NJ Advance Media, pgross @njadvancemedia.com

Gianluca D’Elia, NJ Advance Media, gdelia @njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht 2018 Hunterdon County Democrat. All Rights Reserved.

 
1 dead, 22 hurt in shootout - Gang dispute - South Jersey Times (NJ) -
June 18, 2018 - page A1
June 18, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Sophie Nieto-Munoz, Paige Gross and Kevin Shea | Page A1

T renton

A burst of violence that injured 22 people at a community arts festival in Trenton on Sunday
morning — including 17 people who were shot — began when people started shooting one
another in what appears to have been a gang-related dispute, authorities say.

T ahaji Wells , 33, was shot and killed by police after allegedly exchanging fire with at least two
T ahaji Wells
other suspects at the Art All Night event, Mercer County Prosecutor Angelo Onofri said during a
news conference Sunday evening. T he other suspected gunmen remained hospitalized, Onofri
said.

Prior to the shooting, fights broke out inside and outside Roebling Wire Works, where the annual
event was held. Police attempted to disperse the crowd and urged the organizers to shut down the
festival, Onofri said.

“T hose individuals continued to loiter and additional fights broke out, and then the shooting
occurred,” Onofri said, noting the suspects first shot at each other before police opened fire.

Onfori said two other suspects, Amir Armstrong and another he did not identify, were in the
hospital in critical and stable condition, respectively. He did not detail the charges facing the two.

T wo other people who were in critical condition Sunday — including a 13-year-old boy shot in the
melee — were listed in stable condition Sunday afternoon, Onfori said.

Seventeen people were taken to Capital Health Regional Medical Center in T renton, spokeswoman
Kate Stier said. Some were released later Sunday.

It is possible that some victims were injured by cops’ bul

lets as officers were shooting at the suspects, officials said. How many shots were fired in all is still
under investigation, they said.

Gov. Phil Murphy made a brief visit to Capital Health Regional Medical Center, where many of the
shooting victims were taken Sunday. He also spoke during a Sunday service at the Galilee Baptist
Church in T renton, where the governor offered words of encouragement and prayers to the
community.

“We can rise above this,” he told those in attendance.

T he event, billed as “24 hours of community, creativity, and inspiration” and held at the historic
Roebling Wire Works building on South Clinton Avenue, turned to chaos shortly before 3 a.m. An
estimated 1,000 people were at the event at that hour.

People ran from the event into nearby streets as police descended on the building and alternately
looked for shooters and treated victims.

Irvin Higgenbotham, a resident who said he comes to the event every year, said he was walking
inside the event with his bike when he heard the shots going off.

“It was like, pow, pow, pow and then I was laying down on the ground,” he said.

A bullet struck his leg, he said, and a woman who was at the event helped him until he was able to
be treated. Higgenbotham returned to the scene of the shooting at about 8:45 a.m. Sunday, after
being released from the hospital, to find out what happened, and how he got caught in the middle
of the shooting, he said.

Onofri described a chaotic and confusing scene early on: Trenton police were swamped with 911
calls reporting a shooting inside the venue, and the first police officers on scene radioed they
needed critical assistance and backup.

T renton police were working off-duty security at the event, and there were no metal detectors
inside the building, authorities said. T he event occurs both inside and outdoors.

Authorities said Wells was carrying a handgun with an extended magazine — a gun that is illegal to
possess in New Jersey. It was one of several guns recovered at the scene.

According to authorities, Wells was sentenced in 2004 to 18 years in state prison after pleading
guilty to aggravated manslaughter in the fatal shooting of 22-year-old Robert McNair during a
dispute over who should drive a car Wells had driven from a local bar. Wells was 17 at the time of
McNair’s killing, authorities said.

Records show that in 2010, Wells — still serving time for the 2002 killing — was sentenced to six
more years after pleading guilty to a second-degree racketeering charge following a prosecution
by the state Attorney General’s Office.

In that case, state prosecutors said Wells had helped David “Duke” Allen, the imprisoned leader of
the Bloods’ Nine Trey Gangsters faction, run his gang from behind bars. T he Attorney General’s
Office has described Wells as an alleged Bloods gang member.

He was released in February, records show.

A search of state court records did not show any prior felony convictions for Armstrong, one of
two surviving alleged gunmen.

Witnesses who spoke to NJ Advance Media say they heard shots fired inside the building first
before the gunfire migrated outside.

“I’m still in shock, all that happened all around me,” said Edward “NJ Weedman” Forchion, who was
at the event Saturday night and took videos of the scene.

He said he was passing out fliers and taking photos when “all hell broke loose.” Forchion said he
heard 26 shots. T he gunfire started inside the building and then continued outside, he said.

“T here were people that fell and people stepped over them, people that ran into cars, people were
scrambling,” he said.

Videos posted on social media Sunday showed police and attendees huddling behind cars and
helping the wounded. Maurice Lennon, 31, said he wanted to get one last look at art in the building
with his friend early Sunday when he heard gunfire.

“We heard the first shots ring out inside the art gallery. T he first shot, then the second shot before
it resonated that: Wow that’s gunfire,” Lennon, of Trenton said in a phone interview Sunday. “You
saw the doors bust open, everyone starting running out and panicking. I ended up getting tripped
and fell and I ended up crawling.”

Lennon said he has cuts on his legs and arms from crawling and being stepped on by other people.

“I’ve gone to this event for several years. I’ve been going for the past several years, never anything
like this,” Lennon said. “I’ve always bragged that this is Trenton’s best event … it’s always peaceful.
I’ve always felt safe.”

NJ Advance Media staff writers Bill Duhart, Karen Yi and Thomas Moriarty contributed to this
report.

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
1 Suspect Dead, 22 Injured After Shooting At Art - NPR: Web Edition
Articles - June 18, 2018
June 18, 2018 | NPR: Web Edition Articles | Wynne Davis

Updated at 6:30 a.m.

Law enforcement officials have identified the gunman who was shot and killed by police after a
shooting that left one dead and 22 people injured during an all-night art event in T renton, N.J. on
Sunday morning.

During a news conference Sunday evening, Mercer County Prosecutor Angelo Onofri named the
suspect as Tahaji Wells
at least two other suspects in what appears to be a gang-related dispute, according to NJ.com.

T ahaji Wells , a 33-year-old man with a violent past. Wells allegedly exchanged fire with

Apparently, the killing Sunday night was not Wells' first. In 2004 he was sentenced to 18 years in
state prison after pleading guilty to aggravated manslaughter he had committed two years earlier.
T hat fatal incident was sparked by an argument "over who should drive a car Wells had driven from
a local bar," according to the news outlet.

Six years into his sentence, Wells pleaded guilty to a second-degree racketeering charge adding
another six years to his prison time.

According to records reviewed by NJ.com, Wells was released from prison in February.

Onofri said that 17 of those who were injured Sunday night sustained gunshot wounds, and four
people were in critical condition, including a 13-year-old boy.

Prior to the shooting, fights broke out inside and outside Roebling Wire Works, where the annual
event was held. Police attempted to disperse the crowd and urged the organizers to shut down the
festival, Onofri said.

"T hose individuals continued to loiter and additional fights broke out, and then the shooting
occurred," Onofri said, noting the suspects first shot at each other before police opened fire.

Gunfire broke out just before 3 a.m. Sunday at the city's Art All Night festival that was advertised as
featuring more than 1,500 pieces of art. A second suspect is in police custody.

According to authorities, the individuals who opened fire on the crowd were attending the event at
the historic Roebling Wire Works building, and multiple weapons were recovered from the venue.

Angelo Nicolo, a Trenton resident, told 6ABC T V that he and his brother heard gunfire and then
saw crowds running down the street, including at least one person who Nicolo says had a gunshot
wound in the leg.

"I saw two police officers escort a guy that got shot in the leg; they bandaged him up and whisked
him away before the ambulance came here. It was pretty gnarly," he said.

An estimated 1,000 people were in the building at the time of the shooting. Trenton Mayor Eric
Jackson said in past years the event has drawn in 10,000 people over the 24-hour period.

Organizers for the event, scheduled to last from 3 p.m. Saturday to 3 p.m. Sunday, said it will not
reopen. In a post shared to their Facebook page, organizers said they are still processing the
event, but that it appears that all of the staff, volunteers, artists and musicians were accounted for
and healthy.

"We're very shocked. We're deeply saddened," the post reads. "Our hearts ache and our eyes are
blurry but our dedication and resolve to building a better Trenton through community, creativity
and inspiration will never fade. Not tonight. Not ever." [Copyright 2018 NPR]

Copyrig ht © 2018 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pag e at www.npr.org  for further
information.

 
Suspected gunman killed at arts fest was gang - Express-Times, The
(Easton, PA) - June 18, 2018 - page A1
June 18, 2018 | Express-Times, The (Easton, PA) | Sophie Nieto-Munoz, Paige Gross and Kevin Shea | Page A1

T he burst of violence that injured 22 people at a community arts festival in Trenton on Sunday
morning — including 17 people who were shot — began when several people started shooting one
another in an apparent gang-related dispute, authorities say. T he incident left one of the alleged
gunmen dead.

T ahaji Wells
T ahaji Wells , 33, was shot and killed by police after allegedly exchanging fire with at least two
other suspects at the Art All Night event, Mercer County Prosecutor Angelo Onofri said during a
news conference Sunday evening. T he other suspected gunmen remained hospitalized, Onofri
said.

Prior to the shooting, fights broke out inside and outside Roebling Wire Works, where the annual
event was held. Police attempted to disperse the crowd and urged the organizers to shut down the
festival, Onofri said.

“T hose individuals continued to loiter and additional fights broke out, and then the shooting
occurred,” Onofri said, noting the suspects first shot at each other before police opened fire.

Onofri said two other suspects, Amir Armstrong and another he did not identify, were in the
hospital in critical and stable condition, respectively. He did not detail the charges facing the two.

T wo other people who were in critical condition Sunday — including a 13-year-old boy shot in the
melee — were listed in

stable condition Sunday afternoon, Onofri said.

Seventeen people were taken to Capital Health Regional Medical Center in T renton, spokeswoman
Kate Stier said. Some were released later Sunday.

It is possible that some victims were injured by cops’ bullets as officers were shooting at the
suspects, officials said. How many shots were fired in all is still under investigation, they said.

Gov. Phil Murphy made a brief visit to Capital Health Regional Medical Center, where many of the
shooting victims were taken Sunday. He also spoke during a Sunday service at the Galilee Baptist
Church in T renton, where the governor offered words of encouragement and prayers to the
community.

“We can rise above this,” he told those in attendance.

T he event, billed as “24 hours of community, creativity, and inspiration” and held at the historic

Roebling Wire Works building on South Clinton Avenue, turned to chaos shortly before 3 a.m. An
estimated 1,000 people were at the event at that hour.

People ran from the event into nearby streets as police descended on the building and alternately
looked for shooters and treated victims.

Irvin Higgenbotham, a resident who said he comes to the event every year, said he was walking
inside the event with his bike when he heard the shots going off.

“It was like, pow, pow, pow and then I was laying down on the ground,” he said.

A bullet struck his leg, he said, and a woman who was at the event helped him until he was able to
be treated. Higgenbotham returned to the scene of the shooting at about 8:45 a.m. Sunday, after
being released from the hospital, to find out what happened, and how he got caught in the middle
of the shooting, he said.

Onofri described a chaotic and confusing scene early on: Trenton police were swamped with 911
calls reporting a shooting inside the venue, and the first police officers on scene radioed they
needed critical assistance and backup.

T renton police were working off-duty security at the event, and there were no metal detectors
inside the building, authorities said. T he event occurs both inside and outdoors. Authorities said
Wells was carrying a handgun with an extended magazine — a gun that is illegal to possess in New
Jersey. It was one of several guns recovered at the scene.

According to authorities, Wells was sentenced in 2004 to 18 years in state prison after pleading
guilty to aggravated manslaughter in the fatal shooting of 22-year-old Robert McNair during a
dispute over who should drive a car Wells had driven from a local bar. Wells was 17 at the time of
his killing, authorities said.

Records show that in 2010, Wells — still serving time for the 2002 killing — was sentenced to six
more years after pleading guilty to a second-degree racketeering charge following a prosecution
by the state Attorney General’s Office.

In that case, state prosecutors said Wells had helped David “Duke” Allen, the imprisoned leader of
the Bloods’ Nine Trey Gangsters faction, run his gang from behind bars. T he Attorney General’s
Office has described Wells as an alleged Bloods gang member.

He was released from prison in February, records show. A search of state court records did not
show any prior felony convictions for Armstrong, one of two surviving alleged gunmen.

Witnesses who spoke to NJ Advance Media say they heard shots fired inside the building first
before the gunfire migrated outside.

“I’m still in shock, all that happened all around me,” said Edward “NJ Weedman” Forchion, who was
at the event Saturday night and took videos of the scene.

He said he was passing out flyers and taking photos when “all hell broke loose.” Forchion said he
heard 26 shots. T he gunfire started inside the building and then continued outside, he said.

“T here were people that fell and people stepped over them, people that ran into cars, people were
scrambling,” he said.

Videos posted on social media Sunday showed police and attendees huddling behind cars and
helping the wounded. Maurice Lennon, 31, said he wanted to get one last look at the art inside the
building with his friend early Sunday when he heard gunfire.

“We heard the first shots ring out inside the art gallery. T he first shot, then the second shot before
it resonated that: Wow that’s gunfire,” Lennon, of Trenton said in a phone interview Sunday. “You
saw the doors bust open, everyone starting running out and panicking. I ended up getting tripped
and fell and I ended up crawling.”

Lennon said he has cuts on his legs and arms from crawling and being stepped on by other people
fleeing the shooting.

“I’ve gone to this event for several years. I’ve been going for the past several years, never anything
like this,” Lennon said. “I’ve always bragged that this is Trenton’s best event … it’s always peaceful
I’ve always felt safe.”

Organizers of Art All Night could not be reached Sunday, but a message posted on Facebook said
the rest of the event would be canceled.

T he event, now in its 12th year, draws thousands.

T renton’s mayor-elect, state Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, D-15th Dist., issued a statement
saying he attended Art All Night on Saturday, and was unsure about the popular event’s future. “I
hope that Art All Night does continue but we are going to have to reevaluate security measures in
the future,” he said. “It will be a top priority of my administration to make Trenton a safer city.”

NJ Advance Media staff writers Bill Duhart, Karen Yi and Thomas Moriarty contributed to this
report.

Copyrig ht 2018 The Express-Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
17 shot during Art All Night fest; suspected - Jersey Journal, The (Jersey
City, NJ) - June 18, 2018 - page 011
June 18, 2018 | Jersey Journal, The (Jersey City, NJ) | By Sophie Nieto-Munoz and Paige Gross NJ Advance
Media | Page 011

trenton

A 33-year-old man was shot and killed by police during an outbreak of gunplay in Trenton at the Art
All Night festival early yesterday morning that injured 22.

T ahaji Wells  was shot and killed by police after allegedly exchanging fire with at least two other
T ahaji Wells
suspects in a burst of violence that injured 22 people, 17 of whom were shot, Mercer County
Prosecutor Angelo Onofri said during a press conference last night.

T he shooting appears to be a gang-related dispute, Onofri said.

Prior to the shooting, fights broke out inside and outside Roebling Wire Works, where the annual
event was held. Police attempted to disperse the crowd and urged the organizers to shut down the
festival, Onofri said.

“T hose individuals continued to loiter and additional fights broke out, and then the shooting
occurred,” Onofri said, noting the suspects first shot at each other before police opened fire.

Authorities said Wells was carrying a handgun with an extended magazine — a gun that’s illegal to
possess in New Jersey. It was one of several guns recovered at the scene. Authorities also
commented on his violent past.

Wells was sentenced in 2004 to 18 years in state prison after pleading guilty to aggravated
manslaughter in the fatal shooting of 22-year-old Robert McNair during a dispute over who should
drive a car Wells had driven from a local bar. Wells was 17 at the time of his killing, authorities said.

At the time of the 2002 killing, after Wells had been announced as a suspect, his mother told the
T imes of Trenton “he (was never involved) in things like this.”

Records show that in 2010, Wells — still serving time for the 2002 killing — was sentenced to six
more years after pleading guilty to a second-degree racketeering charge following a prosecution
by the state Attorney General’s Office.

In that case, state prosecutors said Wells had helped David “Duke” Allen, the imprisoned leader of
the Bloods’ Nine Trey Gangsters faction, run his gang from behind bars. T he Attorney General’s
Office has described Wells as an alleged Bloods gang member.

He was released from prison in February, records show.

Onofri also said two other suspects, Amir Armstrong and another he did not identify, are in the
hospital in critical and stable condition, respectively. He did not detail the charges facing the two.

A search of state court records did not show any prior felony convictions for Armstrong.

T he other two injured people who were previously in critical condition Sunday — including a 13-
year-old boy shot in the melee — have been upgraded to stable condition, Onofri said.

It is possible that some victims were injured by cops’ bullets as officers were shooting at the
suspects, officials said. How many shots were fired in all is still under investigation, they said.

T he fatal eruption of gunfire had a noteworthy impact in a city where gun violence is not
uncommon. By Sunday evening, Trenton Public Schools had announced they would adopt
beginning Monday a “shelter-in-place” policy, barring access to school buildings by anyone other
than students or staff.

T he gunfire rang out at around 3 a.m. at the celebrated community event in T renton, when about
1,000 people were in attendance. Officials said they are still investigating what sparked the fight,
but noted that the arts event did not seem to be a target of the violence.

Authorities said Art All Night organizers were in the midst of shutting the event down when the
shots rang out.

Organizers could not immediately be reached for comment, but did post a message on the Art All
Night Facebook page saying they were “very shocked” and “deeply saddened” by the violence.

Reporter Thomas Moriarty contributed to this post.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Jersey Journal. All Rights Reserved. Used by NewsBank with permission.

 


Prosecutor: Shooting by police was justifiable - Pharos-Tribune
(Logansport, IN) - February 22, 2018
February 22, 2018 | Pharos-Tribune (Logansport, IN) | Kim Dunlap Staff reporter

T he Cass County Prosecutor's Office will not seek criminal charges against three Cass County
Sheriff's Department deputies who shot at and killed a Walton man last month who police say was
armed with a knife.

Prosecutor Lisa Swaim said in a news release Thursday that after a thorough examination that
involved 911 recordings, witness statements and the testimonies of the deputies themselves, her
office determined the police action shooting was legally justifiable.

T he announcement comes less than a month after the Jan. 27 shooting. Early that morning, CCSD
deputies were called to a house in the 600 block of Carol Drive in Walton on a report that WilliamWilliam
Pollard Jr., 45, was stabbing himself with a steak knife.
Pollard

T he release went on to state that Pollard stabbed himself as a result of about a week without food
or sleep and after seeing and hearing hallucinations caused by an overdose of methamphetamine.

When police arrived on scene, Pollard was armed with a steak knife, the release stated, and ignored
repeated orders to stop and drop the weapon.

Instead, Swaim wrote in the release, Pollard began walking toward the deputies, spurring police to
fatally shoot him.

Pending investigation into the shooting, Sgt. Pat Zeider, Deputy Ryan Preston and Reserve Deputy
Gary Baumgardner were all placed on administrative leave. Sheriff Randy Pryor said on T hursday
that the department has plans for the three to return to work, but that decision won't be
immediate.

"T hey will be going back to work at some point in the future," he said. "We'll be glad to get them
back, and we're looking forward to it."

Reach Kim Dunlap at kim.dunlap@pharostribune.com or 574-732-5150.

Copyrig ht 2018, Pharos-Tribune / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 
Police name northern Indiana man fatally shot by - Associated Press
State Wire: Indiana (IN) - January 28, 2018
January 28, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Indiana (IN)

WALT ON, Ind. (AP) — State police have identified a rural northern Indiana man who died in an
officer-involved shooting.

T hey say 45-year-old William Pollard

William Pollard of Walton died in the shooting about 4 a.m. Saturday.

Police say officers from the Cass County Sheriff's Department responded to a 911 call at Pollard's
home in which the caller said Pollard was stabbing himself with a knife. When deputies arrived at
the home, there was an undisclosed incident that led to officers shooting Pollard. He was
pronounced dead at the scene about 50 miles north of Indianapolis.

State police say no further information is being released at this time.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Police involved in shooting in Walton - Pharos-Tribune (Logansport, IN)
- January 27, 2018
January 27, 2018 | Pharos-Tribune (Logansport, IN) | From staff reports

State police are investigating a fatal shooting involving county sheriff's personnel that happened
around 4 a.m. Saturday in Walton.

No officers were injured, but a 45-year-old man is deceased after the early morning shooting.

According to a statement released by the Indiana State Police, Cass County Sheriff's Department
deputies responded at about 4 a.m. to a 911 call of a man stabbing himself with a knife inside a
Walton residence.

State police identified the man Saturday evening as William Pollard
confirmed earlier reports that he was in the 600 block of Carol Drive.

William Pollard. T he evening statement

After deputies arrived, the ISP statement read, there was an incident that caused police to fatally
shoot Pollard.

T he shooting remains under investigation.

Copyrig ht 2018, Pharos-Tribune / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 
Officers on leave after police shooting in Walton - Pharos-Tribune
(Logansport, IN) - February 2, 2018
February 2, 2018 | Pharos-Tribune (Logansport, IN) | From staff reports

T hree officers with the Cass County Sheriff's Department are on administrative leave following the
police action shooting in Walton last week, according to a press release from the sheriff's
department.

T he Cass County E911 Dispatch Center received a call for a man stabbing himself at a residence in
the 600 block of Carroll Drive in Walton at about 4:11 a.m. Saturday, Jan. 27, the press release
states. Cass County Sheriff's deputies along with emergency medical personnel responded to the
call, the release continues.

William Pollard.
T he Indiana State Police identified the man later on Saturday as William Pollard

When officers arrived, a female resident met them outside and led them into the residence, the
release goes on to state. Seconds later, the deputies advised that shots had been fired inside the
home and that they requested additional assistance, according to the release.

T he release states Cass County Sheriff's Sgt. Pat Zeider, Deputy Ryan Preston and Reserve
Deputy Gary Baumgardner were in the residence when the shooting occurred.

Zeider is a 20-year veteran with the Cass County Sheriff's Department, Preston is a one-year
veteran with the sheriff's department and previously worked for the Logansport Police
Department for seven years and Baumgardner is a reserve deputy with less than one year of
service with the sheriff's department, the release indicates.

All three officers were placed on administrative leave immediately after the shooting pending an
investigation by the Indiana State Police, according to the release.

Prompt Ambulance Central, Walton first responders, Indiana State Police, Cass County Coroner
and the Logansport Police Department assisted at the scene, the release states.

T he release indicates the investigation continues and more details will be released when they
become available.

Copyrig ht 2018, Pharos-Tribune / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 