Grand jury declines to indict officer in deadly - Dayton Daily News (OH)
- August 14, 2018
August 14, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Breaking News Staff

KET T ERING —

A nine-year veteran officer of the Kettering Police Department who shot and killed a man in an
exchange of gunfire May 5 in a city apartment building after a domestic disturbance was not
indicted by a grand jury.

M itchell
T he Kettering Police Department said Andrew DiSalvo, 31, was the officer who shot M itchell
Simmons , 24, at the Chatham Village Apartment complex.
Simmons

T he Montgomery County Coroner's Office ruled Simmons' death a homicide, saying he died as a
result of multiple gunshot wounds.

MORE: Kettering police shooting: Services set for man who sought officer job

DiSalvo joined the police department in 2009 and has worked as a K-9 officer since 2013. He also
was appointed to the SWAT  team in 2012.

He is a Centerville High School graduate and attended Otterbein College. He also graduated from
the Ohio State Highway Patrol Academy.

MORE: New details emerge on Kettering man in fatal police shooting

DiSalvo arrived on the scene at 5114 Scarsdale Drive after a caller had described a woman being
attacked in a neighboring apartment and hearing her cries for help.

Police say DiSalvo could hear the argument between Simmons and a woman and advised
dispatchers he was forcing entry into the apartment. Gunfire was exchanged — DiSalvo was not
hit. First aid was rendered, but Simmons was pronounced deceased a short time later.

T uesday afternoon, a Simmons family spokesperson issued a statement: "We intend to review the
entire investigative file and will comment at that time."

DiSalvo's personnel file reflects good performance reviews since he was sworn in as a patrol
officer in 2009. T here was one instance of discipline issued in March of 2010 for violation of policy
and procedure.

DiSalvo's last two yearly reviews in 2016 and 2017 indicated that he performed at the
"Outstanding" or "Above Standards" levels. Kettering Police Chief Chip Protsman wrote, "without
your willingness to take on extra assignments, this organization would not be as successful."

T wo 911 calls placed by a neighbor detail a frantic scene going on inside the apartment at 5114
Scarsdale Drive.

"T here was a woman screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!' I can hear her
and she kept screaming 'Get off, get off. I can't breathe. You broke my nose. My nose is bleeding
and I can't breathe,'" a neighbor said in the first 911 call placed.

MORE: Nurse on Kettering police: 'T hey did what they could' to save man shot

A second call placed by the neighbor after officers arrived on scene stated, "T here was a woman
screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!' "

Simmons, a 2012 Beavercreek High School grad, was working at Wright-Patt Credit Union as a
fraud investigator at the time of his death. He had recently interviewed with Kettering police to
become a law enforcement officer in the city, according to Gabrielson.

Got a tip? Call our monitored 24-hour line, 937-259-2237, or send it to newsdesk@cmgohio.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 