Kettering police name officer involved in deadly - Dayton Daily News
(OH) - May 9, 2018
May 9, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Wayne Baker

KET T ERING —

A 9-year veteran of the Kettering Police Department is the officer who shot and killed a man in an
exchange of gunfire late Saturday in a city apartment building after a domestic disturbance.

T he Kettering Police Department on Wednesday said Andrew DiSalvo, 31, was the officer who shot
M itchell Simmons , 24, at the Chatham Village Apartment complex.
M itchell Simmons

T he Montgomery County Coroner's Office officially ruled Simmons' death a homicide, saying he
died as a result of multiple gunshot wounds.

T he Dayton Daily News and WHIO-T V used Ohio's public records requests to obtain the
information, which included DiSalvo's personnel file and Simmons' application for a city police
officer job. Lt. Michael Gabrielson said that the department "will not be making any additional
comments or statements regarding this information."

DiSalvo joined the police department in 2009 and has worked as a K-9 officer since 2013. He was
also appointed to the SWAT  team in 2012.

He is a Centerville High School graduate and attended Otterbein College. He also graduated from
the Ohio State Highway Patrol Academy.

On Saturday night, DiSalvo arrived on the scene at 5114 Scarsdale Drive after a caller had
described a woman being attacked in a neighboring apartment and hearing her cries for help.

Police say DiSalvo could hear the argument between Simmons and a woman and advised
dispatchers he was forcing entry into the apartment. Gunfire was exchanged — Simmons
reportedly shot at DiSalvo, who returned fire. First aid was rendered, but Simmons was pronounced
deceased a short time later.

DiSalvo is on paid administrative leave, which is standard after an officer-involved shooting.

His personnel file reflects good performance reviews since he was sworn in as a patrol officer in
2009. T here was one instance of discipline issued in March of 2010 for violation of policy and
procedure.

DiSalvo's last two yearly reviews in 2016 and 2017 indicated that he performed at the
"Outstanding" or "Above Standards" levels. Kettering Police Chief Chip Protsman wrote, "without
your willingness to take on extra assignments, this organization would not be as successful."

T wo 911 calls placed by a neighbor detail a frantic scene going on inside the apartment at 5114
Scarsdale Drive.

"T here was a woman screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!' I can hear her
and she kept screaming 'Get off, get off. I can't breathe. You broke my nose. My nose is bleeding
and I can't breathe,'" a neighbor said in the first 911 call placed.

A second call placed by the neighbor after officers arrived on scene stated, "T here was a woman
screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!' "

Simmons, a 2012 Beavercreek High School grad, was working at Wright-Patt Credit Union as a
fraud investigator at the time of his death. He had recently interviewed with Kettering police to
become a law enforcement officer in the city, according to Gabrielson.

According to his obituary, services for Simmons will be held from 5 to 9 p.m. Thursday at the
Routsong Funeral Home, 2100 E. Stroop Road, Kettering. Funeral services will be held at 11 a.m. on
Friday at Christ Church United Methodist, 3440 Shroyer Rd., Dayton.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 