
 
A man asked residents of a South Elgin condo to take care of his wife before he began a four-hour standoff with

police Tuesday night that ended with him dead and three officers injured, according to police and witnesses.  

"Will you take care of Paula?" Frank Dripps, 52, said before grabbing a shotgun and a rifle in the room he rented on

Woodridge Circle in South Elgin, according to the son of the condo's owner. 

"He said a bunch of weird stuff ... and then went into his room and came out with the guns," Matthew Horne said. 

South Elgin police officers were called to the condo complex at 10:50 p.m. Tuesday for a report of shots fired. As

they arrived, at least two shotgun blasts were fired at officers, according to police Sgt. Mike Doty. 

The officers did not return fire but set up a perimeter and evacuated residents, Doty said. SWAT teams from Elgin

and Kane County, as well as officers from South Elgin and 10 area agencies, began negotiating with the man. 

Dripps had barricaded himself in a stairwell, yelling vulgarities at police and threatening to shoot them if they

approached, officials said. 

Around 2:30 a.m., Dripps opened fire again and was shot by an officer, Doty said. He died at the scene. 

Three officers were taken to hospitals for injuries not considered life-threatening, and the officer who shot the

suspect was taken to a hospital for observation, South Elgin officials said. 

The officers were from Geneva, Hanover Park and the Kane County sheriff's office. Officials did not identify the

officers or say where they were hit or the extent of their injuries. The three injured officers were treated and

released from the hospital Wednesday, officials from the three departments said. 

Doty said he did not know whether police had earlier contact with Dripps. Records indicate he had a string of

arrests when he lived in California several years ago. 

Dripps and his wife had moved into the condo several months ago after the condo owner met Dripps' wife at work,

Horne said. He described the couple as "down on their luck." 

Horne said that his mother did not know Dripps had the guns until Tuesday night and that he did not know why

Dripps confronted police. 

Kathy LaMaide, whose condo is across the street from where the incident happened, said she heard "gunshots. ... I

thought it was someone blowing up trash cans at first." 

She was on her balcony Wednesday afternoon as a Kane County Emergency Management mobile command unit

remained stationed outside 325 Woodridge Circle. 

LaMaide said she saw police officers arrive on the scene. They gave her and her neighbors the option of

evacuating, but she chose to remain in her home, she said. Residents in another building were ordered to evacuate,

LaMaide said. 

A SWAT team arrived, and LaMaide said she later heard more gunshots. 

Neighbors were allowed back into their homes around 4:30 a.m., she said. 

LaMaide did not know Dripps or the owners of the condo. 

"It's a very quiet neighborhood," she said. "People pretty much keep to themselves, which is why it was such a

shock." 

---------- 

Freelance reporter Gloria Casas contributed. 

CREDIT: By Janelle Walker, The Courier-News; Freelance reporter Gloria Casas contributed. 
 
 
