Carver County releases Amorosi 911 call and past - Chanhassen Villager
(MN) - July 27, 2018
July 27, 2018 | Chanhassen Villager (MN) | Alex Chhith

CHASKA — T he Carver County Sheriff's Office released a number of documents related to the July
13 confrontation between deputies and Chanhassen resident Archer Amorosi
Archer Amorosi that resulted in the
teen's death.

Cpl. Jacob Hodge and Deputy Travis Larson, who shot Amorosi, 16, are on paid administrative
leave while the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension investigates the case.

Hodges has had four disciplinary actions, according to sheriff records. Hodges first allegedly
violated the Sheriff's Office standards for conduct on October 2009, which resulted in a 40-hour
unpaid suspension.

In December 2010, Hodges allegedly violated sheriff policy which resulted in a six-hour suspension
and a written reprimand. Hodges allegedly violated sheriff policy and standards of conduct in June
2011. T hat resulted in a disciplinary action of seven 12-hour shifts unpaid, according to Sheriff's
Office records. Hodges has had one "unsustained complaint," according to the Sheriff's Office.

Hodges has received seven awards while at the department, most notably a Medal of Distinction in
April for response to a call of a suicidal female with a knife. He also received a Medal of Distinction
for responding to a call of threats of violence against the public and deputies in 2016, according to
the Sheriff's Office. In 2013, he received recognition for assisting with a mental health call and a
person with an assault rifle.

Larson has had no complaints or past disciplines. Hodges has been with the Carver County
Sheriff's Office for 18 years and Larson has been with the department for two. Larson received a
Lifesaving Award for performing CPR and saving a life in April.

Cpl. Josh Baker, who discharged his Taser in the encounter, has been with the department for 11
years and has had no complaints or past disciplines. Baker has received three recognition coins,
according to the Sheriff's Office.

911 CALL

Multiple law enforcement agencies responded on July 13, to a home on the 6400 block of Oriole
Avenue in north Chanhassen. T he previous day, two Sheriff's Office units had visited the same
address, according to the sheriff's blotter.

At about 10 a.m. July 13, the teen's mother called authorities and said her son was suicidal and was
threatening her with knives and a baseball bat, according to the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension.
She warned the emergency dispatcher that Amorosi may try to hurt responding officers, according

to the 911 transcript released by authorities.

"He wants them to get in like a showdown with police," she said according to the transcript. She
had been trapped in the garage by Amorosi and for much of the conversation talked with the
dispatcher on how she could unlock the garage door and get out.

"(Deputies) were here yesterday, he saw them, he needed a medical evaluation and they couldn't
do anything," she said. Later, his mother told the dispatcher she was scared for her son.

"I am, I am, I'm scared for him, I'm scared for him ... What are they going to do?" she said. T he
dispatcher told her to take a couple of deep breaths.

"Couple of deep breaths the officers are going to do their job, OK? Couple of deep breaths for me,"
the dispatcher said.

T he BCA is conducting an investigation and body and dashboard cameras captured portions of the
incident, according to a BCA press release. T he Carver County Sheriff's Office does not currently
use body cameras.

"T he BCA will conduct a thorough investigation and gather all of the evidence and then turn its
findings over without recommendation to the Carver County Attorney's Office for review," the
release stated.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Chanhassen Villag er (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 