The Spoonful: Officer-involved shooting, canceled - Eden Prairie News
(MN) - July 22, 2018
July 22, 2018 | Eden Prairie News (MN) | Maggie Stanwood

T he Spoonful brings you a roundup of the biggest news in the southwest metro region each week.

Archer Amorosi 
Community grieves for Archer Amorosi

A 16-year-old Minnetonka High School student died July 13 following a confrontation with the
Carver County Sheriff's Office. Archer Amorosi
called authorities on July 13 and said her son was suicidal, and threatening her with knives and a
baseball bat. Officers used a Taser on the teen and at one point, two deputies fired their weapons
at him. He was pronounced dead at the scene. T he Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is
investigating the incident.

Archer Amorosi would have been a junior in the fall. His mother

New neighbors wage legal battle over barking at Bluff High Kennels in Savage

A 40-year-old dog boarding business in Savage is tangled in a legal debate with neighbors
regarding the sound of dogs barking coming from the property. Two homeowners in the T rout
Run Preserve residential development have asked the city to revoke a permit for Bluff High
Kennels that allows the kennel to operate in a residential zone. T he homeowners said the barking
has caused health issues. A citation was issued to kennel owners by the city this month for being in
violation of the residential habitual barking code. After five citations, the kennel could shut down.

Return to sender: Luce tangles over emails

T he Scott County Attorney's Office is reviewing whether criminal charges are warranted against
Shakopee City Councilor Mike Luce for allegedly not turning over city-related emails from a
personal email account. Luce was asked for these emails after separate data requests from a Star
T ribune reporter and a Shakopee lawyer. Luce told the Shakopee Valley News that the emails do
not exist, but past data requests reveal Luce has used his personal email account for city-related
business. If a city councilor sends or receives emails pertaining to city business from their person
email account, those emails are considered public under Minnesota law.

Gun-opposition rally in Excelsior canceled

A parade and rally to oppose gun violence planned for Aug. 18 in Excelsior has been canceled. T he
city council was concerned with the size of the crowd, as former presidential candidate Bernie
Sanders, as well as other activists including students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School
in Parkland, Florida, had been slated to attend. T he organizing group, Protect Minnesota, is
planning another rally with a prospective date in October. T he event will be called the Westside
March and Rally Against Gun Violence.

Shakopee nonprofit hosts clinics for amputees to try fitness prosthetics

A Shakopee-based nonprofit called Wiggle Your Toes held a fitness clinic last week for people who
have lost lower limbs in conjunction with Ottobock, a leading company in prosthetic limb
technology. Many of the attendees had lost a limb in the past year and were able to try out
different prosthetic technologies. Reporter Amanda McKnight said everyone at the event
expressed happiness knowing their mobility possibilities are endless.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Eden Prairie News (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 