Deputies fatally shoot Chanhassen teen - Mother - Star Tribune:
Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) - July 14, 2018 - page 01A
July 14, 2018 | Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities (MN) | LIZ SAWYER; PAUL WALSH; STAFF WRITERS |
Page 01A

A 16-year-old boy described as suicidal was shot dead by Carver County deputies with his parents
nearby after a brief standoff outside his Chanhassen home.

T he teen was identified by classmates as Archer Amorosi
set to begin his junior year at Minnetonka High School. Police said he brandished weapons at
officers.

Archer Amorosi, a lacrosse and football player who was

Deputies responded to the house in the 6400 block of Oriole Avenue just off Hwy. 7 about 10 a.m.
after a woman called 911 to report that her son was suicidal and threatening her with knives and a
baseball bat, according to the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension.

When deputies arrived they first used a Taser before two of them fired their weapons. Amorosi
was pronounced dead at the scene. Body cameras and dash camera video from one of the five
responding agencies “may have recorded portions of the incident,” according to the BCA, the
agency now investigating the shooting. Both officers involved in the shooting are now on standard
administrative leave, and the BCA will turn its findings over to the Carver County Attorney’s Office
for review.

By midafternoon, more than a dozen friends and teammates had come to grieve with relatives as
investigators processed the crime scene nearby. Many of the teen’s friends huddled together,
crying in disbelief.

Reed Greenwood, 16, described Amorosi as loud and energetic, part of the popular crowd at
school. Social media photos of Amorosi depict a strapping young man with long blond hair and a
bright smile.

T wo teenage boys from Minnetonka High arrived to pay their respects but declined to be
identified. T hey described him as a talented athlete and “super fun, nice guy.”

One boy questioned the use of force. “T hey knew about the mental issues,” he said. “It’s sad it had
to end this way.”

On T witter, fellow students posted memories of Amorosi and messages of condolences to the
family.

“Rip dude): u deserved better,” read one tweet. “T oday I lost a brother. Long live Archer,” read
another. Minnetonka High’s lacrosse team tweeted, “Rest easy, Archer, we will miss you incredibly
and love you forever.”

Emergency dispatch audio from the Carver County Sheriff’s Office revealed how the altercation
quickly unfolded.

“Male party has knives and a baseball bat,” the 911 dispatcher said of the initial call. “Mother is
stating that he wants the officers to shoot him.”

T he dispatcher identified the male as Amorosi. His mother, who called 911, said he had disabled
the garage door, locking her inside the garage.

“I was there yesterday. Dad said that he’s got some mental health issues,” an officer responded on
the audio. “Has this idea that he wants to go out like Bonnie and Clyde.”

T he officer said the father wasn’t aware of any firearms on the property other than an airsoft
pellet gun. An officer warned that the teen would be “hostile towards law enforcement as well.”

According to the audio, officers arrived and saw the teenager in the living room with “some kind of
handgun” in his left hand and a knife in the right. Mental health crisis services were also called to
the scene.

Officers formed a perimeter and one noted that “he does continually point a handgun in my
direction.” Amorosi began pacing between the front of the house and garage door, as deputies
discussed how to get the mother out of the garage. T he teen then returned to the living room and
alternated aiming between the officers and the garage door. Pepper spray was deployed.

According to the audio, the teen’s father then arrived and was escorted away. T he officers held
Amorosi at gunpoint while he had “a hatchet and something in his hands.”

“Get both the parents out of here,” another officer said just before Amorosi was shot.

“Shots fired, shots fired, ambulance code 3, suspect is down” an officer said. CPR was performed in
the yard on the south side of the house.

Ambulances were called for the mother and an officer, who had minor injuries.

A minute later a responder tells dispatch, “At this time we have terminated efforts on the gunshot
victim,” and cancels a call for an ambulance.

Heather Sandahl, who lives two doors down, saw police approaching the Amorosi home as she
was leaving her house at 10:10 a.m. for a Paisley Park tour.

Some officers appeared to be removing their guns from holsters and putting on bullet-resistant
vests. “We went back and asked the officers, ‘Are we safe here?’ ” Sandahl recalled. “T hey said they
weren’t sure, and we left as more squads came rushing down the road.”

It wasn’t until after the tour that she found out what had happened. A friend who remained inside
her home had dropped to the ground as shots rang out soon after, she said.

Hours later, Sandahl was waiting down the road at the Cub Foods parking lot, since she was
blocked from her driveway. When she learned the victim was Amorosi, she hunched over in tears.

“It’s just not fair,” she said.

Greg Greenwood, who lives down the street from the scene of the shooting, said he heard two
popping sounds just before 10:30 a.m. while he was in the Caribou parking lot about a quarter mile
away.

“I hunt, so I know gunshots,” said Greenwood, whose son Reed attends Minnetonka High. “We
don’t have much happen around here, so when it does, it’s a big shock.”

liz.sawyer@startribune.com • 612-673-4648 paul.walsh@startribune.com • 612-673-4482

Copyrig ht 2018 Star Tribune: Newspaper of the Twin Cities

 