Sheriff to investigate fatal McElmo Canyon - Journal, The (Cortez,
Dolores, Mancos, CO) - July 5, 2018
July 5, 2018 | Journal, The (Cortez, Dolores, Mancos, CO) | Jim Mimiaga

T he Montezuma County Sheriff's Office is still waiting on results of a federal investigation into an
officer-involved shootout in McElmo Canyon in February that left one man dead.

But Sheriff Steve Nowlin said he is becoming impatient and plans to conduct his own independent,
internal affairs investigation to determine if lethal force by Sgt. Ed Oxley was justified, even though
it happened outside the county.

"It has been too long, and I feel like to move forward, we need to conduct our own investigation
into the shooting," he said.

On Feb. 15, after Oxley pulled over a vehicle on Road G for an alleged traffic violation, Nowlin said.
He said the suspect sped off, and an occupant allegedly shot at Oxley as he pursued the car west
into Utah, just past the Ismay Trading Post.

T he car had blown a tire and continued driving on one rim until it came to a stop and an occupant
exited the vehicle surrendering with his hands up, according to Nowlin. T he car rolled backward into
the ditch and started a brush fire. Upon arrival, Oxley was allegedly fired upon, and he returned fire,
killing Fordell H ill

Fordell H ill, 27.

T wo unidentified people who were in the car with Hill were taken into custody by the Bureau of
Indian Affairs. T heir names have not been released.

Oxley was not injured, but his patrol car, where he took cover, was shot up, Nowlin said. County
Road G was closed overnight while the shooting was investigated.

T he shootout occurred in a jurisdictional patchwork of Navajo land and San Juan County, Utah land.
It was eventually determined the fatal shooting occurred on Navajo trust land, so the case was
turned over to the FBI.

Nowlin said he plans to convene a three-to-five-person review board of civilian and law
enforcement experts from outside the area to investigate the officer-involved shooting, and make
a recommendation on whether it was justified.

According to Montezuma County Sheriff's Office policy, Oxley has been on paid administrative
leave since the incident.

"Usually these get resolved within a few months, so it is frustrating," Nowlin said. "T he review
board will conduct a fact-finding mission of the action of the officer at the time."

He is also waiting on Utah's U.S. Attorney General's office to release a report on the matter so he
can conduct a proper criminal investigation on the portion of the incident that took place in
Montezuma County.

On T uesday, T he Journal emailed FBI spokeswoman Sandra Barker for an update on the status of
the federal investigation. "T here is no new information at this time," Barker said.

jmimiaga@the-journal.com

Copyrig ht 2018, The Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 