'I'm feeling homicidal,' man shot by cop told 911 - Press of Atlantic City,
The (NJ) - January 26, 2018 - page 1A
January 26, 2018 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | WALDY DIEZ Staff Writer | Page 1A

MILLVILLE - A city man called 911 twice Monday to report he was armed with a gun and "feeling
homicidal" prior to being fatally shot by police, according to a recording of the calls released
T hursday through a public records request.

Edward Gandy
Edward Gandy Jr., 47, of Dock Street, first called 911 at 10:47 a.m. to report he was at High and
McNeal streets with a gun, according to a statement by Cumberland County Prosecutor Jennifer
Webb-McRae.

In the first 911 call to police, a dispatcher asked Gandy how he was feeling.

"I'm feeling homicidal. I'm feeling homicidal," Gandy replied.

T he female dispatcher verified his location at the corner of High and McNeal and asked for his
name before the connection ended.

Gandy, sounding distressed, called 911 a second time with his location.

"I have a gun on me," Gandy said in the second call.

"OK, sir, the police are on their way," the dispatcher responded.

Gandy said he did not know how he felt when the dispatcher asked him what he felt like at the
moment.

A Millville police officer then joined the dispatcher in a three-way call after Gandy said his gun was
loaded. Gandy did not respond to repeated prompts from the officer.

"I have officers up here right now," the officer said before the connection ended.

Webb-McRae said Gandy was fatally shot by police who responded to the 911 calls.

T he prosecutor did not provide details on the time of the second 911 call or when officers arrived
at the scene and how long the confrontation lasted.

T he officer involved in the shooting, whose name was not released, was placed on administrative
leave, Webb-McRae said. No firearm was recovered at the location, she said.

Autopsy results on Gandy have not yet been released.

A Use of Deadly Force Investigation is being conducted by the Cumberland County Prosecutor's
Office per the New Jersey attorney general's July 28, 2015, Supplemental Directive Regarding
Uniform Statewide Procedures and Best Practices for Conducting Police Use of Force
Investigations, Webb-McRae said.

Anyone with information can contact Prosecutor's Office Detective Nicholina Pennington at 856-
362-0751.

Contact: 609-272-7090 WDiez@pressofac.com T witter: @_waldy

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 