Cape detective shoots Millville teen - AG - Press of Atlantic City, The
(NJ) - October 20, 2018 - page 1A
October 20, 2018 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | JOHN DeROSIER & VINCENT JACKSON Staff Writers | Page
1A

VINELAND - T he state Attorney General's Office on Friday released the name of the Millville teen
who was fatally shot by police.

Jacob Servais
Jacob Servais , 19, was shot by a detective with either the Cape May County Prosecutor's Office or
Lower Township Police Department on T hursday.

T he Attorney General's Office did not say why Cape May County authorities were operating in
Cumberland County.

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="fb6f861e-d2e2-11e8-aa4c-00163ec2aa77"}}

Lower Township police and the Cape May County Prosecutor's Office did not respond to requests
for comment. T he Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office deferred comment to the Attorney
General's Office. T he Vineland Police Department declined to comment.

T he shooting occurred about 3:30 p.m. in the parking lot of Just for Wheels Car, T ruck and Van
Rental at 2587 S. Delsea Drive, Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said in a statement.

According to a preliminary investigation, the shooting occurred when detectives from the Cape
May County Prosecutor's Office and Lower Township encountered Servais as they were
conducting a law-enforcement operation, Grewal said.

T he man was taken by ambulance to Inspira Medical Center Vineland, where he was pronounced
dead.

None of the detectives was injured, Grewal said.

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="2b56a174-d2f6-11e8-98e2-00163ec2aa77"}}

State Police charged Servais in June with death by auto in an Elk T ownship, Gloucester County,
crash that killed Servais' 17-year-old passenger, according to the Daily Journal of Vineland. T he
crash came after a police chase that started in Franklin T ownship, the Journal reported.

T hursday's was the second fatal police-involved shooting in Vineland this year. On July 14, Vineland
police shot and killed Rashaun Washington, 37, of Camden, after a standoff in which Washington
threatened to trigger an explosive device.

T he Attorney General's Independent Prosecutor Directive, issued in 2006 and revised in 2015,

requires the attorney general to review all police deadly force investigations, and in some cases
conduct them, Grewal said.

T he directive further states that unless the undisputed facts indicate the use of force was justified
under the law, the circumstances of the incident must be presented to a grand jury, composed of
23 civilians, for independent review, Grewal said.

Staff Writer Molly Bilinski contributed to this report.

Contact: 609-272-7260 JDeRosier@pressofac.com T witter @ACPressDeRosier

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 