No video of fatal police shooting in Vineland - - Press of Atlantic City,
The (NJ) - November 10, 2018 - page 1A
November 10, 2018 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | MOLLY BILINSKI Staff Writer | Page 1A

T here is no body camera footage of a Cape May County Prosecutor's detective fatally shooting a
teenager in Vineland last month, according to the state Attorney General's Office.

Jacob Servais , 19, of Millville, was shot and killed by Detective John Caccia on Oct. 18 during an
Jacob Servais
investigation into a violent crime, according to the Attorney General's Office.

In response to an Open Public Records Act request for body-worn camera footage from the
shooting, the state Division of Criminal Justice said in a letter received Friday that the division "does
not make or maintain footage that captured the shooting or the events leading up to the incident."

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="c056aaf2-d329-11e8-8185-00163ec2aa77"}}

T he Attorney General's Office, in responding to T he Press of Atlantic City's public records request
for other footage from the shooting, did provide video of Vineland police officers responding after
Servais was shot. T hat video included officers setting up a perimeter and footage of someone
performing CPR on Servais.

T he office also provided the use-of-force report from the shooting. T he summary of the incident
says Caccia "discharged his issued duty weapon in fear of imminent danger of death or serious
bodily injury."

Cape May County Prosecutor Jeffrey H. Sutherland, asked whether his office would release body
camera footage the day after the shooting, replied by email that his office "will be providing no
additional responses until we receive clearance from the Attorney General's Office."

Al Wheeler, an attorney who represented Servais in two property-crime cases in Cumberland
County that were dismissed days before the shooting, said it seems like fatal police-involved
shootings are "a genuine option that isn't special anymore" and it's "demoralizing."

"Sadly, I'm not surprised at all that they did not have body cameras, since we don't know what kind
of operation they were involved in," he said, adding he's "waiting for the other things that will give
us an indication about what went on out there."

T he shooting took place about 3:30 p.m. in the parking lot of Just for Wheels Car, T ruck and Van
Rental at 2587 S. Delsea Drive. Caccia and other detectives from the Cape May County
Prosecutor's Office and Lower Township Police Department were conducting surveillance for an
investigation into a violent crime that occurred in the county earlier in the month, Attorney General
Gurbir S. Grewal said in a statement.

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="1ad8098a-dd3e-11e8-ac4b-00163ec2aa77"}}

Caccia has been placed on administrative leave, Cape May County Prosecutor's Capt. Michael
Emmers said. Caccia's annual salary is $73,518, public records show.

Detectives believed Servais was a suspect, Grewal said. Whether Servais had a weapon is still under
investigation.

T he Oct. 18 incident was the second time a man was fatally shot in Vineland by authorities this
year.

In July, Vineland police fatally shot Rashaun Washington, of Camden, during a standoff outside a
home. Washington threatened to trigger an explosive device.

Contact: 609-272-7241 Mbilinski@pressofac.com T witter @ACPressMollyB

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 