Questions in police shooting of man, 19 Shooting - South Jersey Times
(NJ) - October 20, 2018 - page 001
October 20, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Matt Gray and Alex Napoliello For South Jersey Times | Page
001

T he state Attorney General’s Office is investigating a fatal police-involved shooting that happened
T hursday afternoon in Cumberland County.

Detectives from the Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office and Lower Township Police
Department, also in Cape May County, were conducting a “law enforcement operation” when they
“encountered” a man and shot him in the parking lot of the Just for Wheels Car, T ruck and Van
Rental business on South Delsea Drive in Vineland around 3:30 p.m., according to the Attorney
General’s Office.

T he man was identified by authorities Friday morning as 19-year-old Jacob Servais

Jacob Servais  of Millville.

He had been transported Thursday to Inspira Medical Center in Vineland, where he was
pronounced dead.

Investigators have not said whether he had a weapon during the encounter.

No detectives were injured.

“T he subject was shot by one of the detectives,” a statement from the Attorney General’s Office
said.

It did not specify which law enforcement agency the detective was from.

T he attorney general’s Shooting Response Team is handling the investigation, which is typical
when an incident involves officers of county agencies.

T he statement did not offer any fur

ther details about the incident, and it was unclear exactly why detectives from Cape May County
were in Vineland.

T ony Lee, an employee at Joshua Motors, which is adjacent to where the shooting occurred on
South Delsea Drive, was sitting in a vehicle at the business when he heard gunfire.

He said he believed the incident began with a traffic stop.

“I heard a couple of bangs ... four or five,” Lee recalled. “And I heard when they said, ‘Get down, get
down.’

“T hen, when I took a look on my left side, there was about four or five policemen going around the
car,” Lee said. “T hat’s when I got out, went inside the building, because there was still some shots.”

T hen, Lee said, he saw numerous police cruisers and an ambulance converge on the area.

Police closed the busy street during their investigation, and stretched caution tape across the
parking lot.

Officers at the scene said they could not comment on what had happened.

At 6 p.m. T hursday, there were still about a dozen police vehicles on the scene and the road
remained closed.

Cumberland County Prosecutor Jennifer Webb-McRae, who usually issues news releases on police-
involved shootings in the county, referred comment to the Attorney General’s Office.

In June, Servais was charged with death by auto and related offenses in Gloucester County
following a deadly crash in which he was the driver — and being chased by police.

Servais’ pickup truck crashed into a tree off Route 55 in Elk Township and caught fire.

His 17-year-old passenger died a short time later at a local hospital, the Daily Journal of Vineland
reported.

T he site also reported Franklin Township police had been chasing Servais’ vehicle shortly before the
crash, but had halted the pursuit due to his erratic driving.

Court records show he did not appear in court last month in that case.

It’s unclear whether the Gloucester case had anything to do with his interaction with police
T hursday night.

NJ Advance Media staff writer Rebecca Everett contributed to this report.

Alex Napoliello, NJ Advance Media, anapoliello@njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 