State AG investigating fatal shooting by detective - South Jersey Times
(NJ) - November 1, 2018 - page 001
November 1, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Matt Gray For South Jersey Times | Page 001

A detective who shot and killed a 19-year-old man in Vineland on Oct. 18 was investigating an
earlier crime at the time and the man he killed was a suspect, the state Attorney General’s Office
revealed Wednesday.

John Caccia, a detective with the Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office, was involved in a
surveillance operation with other detectives when he shot Jacob Servais
lot of vehicle rental business on Delsea Drive in Cumberland County.

Jacob Servais  of Millville, in the parking

Caccia “encountered” Servais, who was driving a Nissan Altima, and fired his Glock 19, a 9mm
handgun, three times, according to the Attorney General’s announcement. Servais was
pronounced dead at a hospital a short time later.

Investigators still have not revealed if Servais was armed or used any weapon during the
encounter. Or provided any information about the crime they were investigating.

“T he nature of any resistance and the use of any weapon

on the part of Mr. Servais remain the subject of that ongoing investigation, and no further
information will be released at this time,” the office stated.

T he detectives involved in the surveillance operation, including officials with the Lower T ownship
Police Department, were investigating a “violent crime” that occurred earlier in October, officials
said, but details of that case were not disclosed.

T he Attorney General’s Shooting Response Team is reviewing the Servais shooting. T hat team will
determine if the shooting was justified and could present the matter to a grand jury.

Caccia was placed on paid administrative leave pending completion of the investigation.

At the time of his death, Servais was under indictment in two counties and facing indictment in a
third. He was also wanted on a bench warrant for skipping a court appearance in Gloucester
County.

He was facing indictment on a vehicular homicide charge in Gloucester County following a June
crash that killed a friend in his vehicle.

Servais was indicted earlier this month on an aggravated assault charge after he allegedly punched
another resident in a juvenile detention facility in Bordentown and broke his jaw.

He was also indicted in Cumberland County earlier this year on a charge of receiving stolen
property. T hat case involved a December 2017 arrest.

Matt Gray, NJ Advance Media, mgray@njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 