ames of victim and Montezuma County deputy - Durango Herald, The
(CO) - March 15, 2018
March 15, 2018 | Durango Herald, The (CO) | Jim Mimiaga

T he names of the victim and Montezuma County deputy involved in a deadly shootout in McElmo
Canyon Feb. 15 have been released by the FBI and Sheriff's Office.

On Wednesday, FBI spokeswoman Sandra Barker identified the person killed as Fordell H ill
She did not say where he lived.

Fordell H ill, 27.

As part of standard procedure, Sgt. Ed Oxley was put on paid administrative leave pending an
investigation of the fatal shooting, said Sheriff Steve Nowlin.

T he incident began after Oxley pulled over an eastbound white sedan with three occupants on
County Road G for a broken brake light and no visible registration.

But while attempting to contact the driver, the suspect did a U-turn and sped westbound toward
Utah. While in pursuit, someone in the car fired shots at Oxley, according to Nowlin.

T he chase continued on County Road G for more than 10 miles and ended a few hundred yards
into Utah, just west of the old Ismay Trading Post. T he vehicle had blown a tire and was driving on
a bare wheel rim.

According to Nowlin, the driver parked the sedan broadside in the road, got out and raised his
hands to surrender. T he car rolled backward into a ditch and started a brush fire that sent out a
plume of smoke.

Nowlin said that an occupant of the vehicle continued to fire upon Oxley, who fired back, killing an
unidentified passenger.

T he driver and other passenger were taken into custody by the Sheriff's Office, and turned over to
Navajo police. T he deputy reportedly administered CPR to the injured suspect, who died at the
scene.

It was not reported how many shots were fired, but Nowlin said the patrol vehicle was shot up.

Paul Davis, who lives on County Road G near where the car crashed, said he saw officers in pursuit,
then a short time later heard five to six gunshots, a pause, then more gunshots.

T he incident closed McElmo Road in both directions for more than 8 hours while the fatal shooting
was investigated. A line of backed-up drivers were forced to turn around and find alternative
routes. Fire crews from San Juan County Utah arrived to fight the brush fire.

Working out which jurisdiction where the final shootout took place was difficult, Nowlin said. It was
determined that it occurred on Navajo trust land in Utah, and therefore was under the jurisdiction
of the FBI.

T he identities of the passengers have not been released by the FBI, Nowlin said.

"T hey haven't even released that information to us," he said.

Nowlin said they are waiting results of the FBI investigation so the Sheriff's Office can fully
investigate the portion of criminal action that occurred on the Montezuma County side of the
Utah-Colorado border.

"We are also still waiting to get our patrol vehicle back and the equipment in it," he said. "We're
down an officer while the investigation continues."

Nowlin said they are cooperating with the FBI.

It was the second fatal shooting involving a Montezuma County deputy in eight months. On July 4,
T yrone Orvy Peabody was killed by a deputy after he was fired upon responding to a family
disturbance and suspected DUI in Pleasant View.

"It goes to show the types of crimes we have to deal with are getting more violent and more
dangerous," Nowlin said. "We have stepped up training to appropriately handle these types of
situations."

jmimiaga@the-journal.com

(c) 2018, The Durang o Herald, All Rights Reserved

 