Attorney General rules August police shooting - Associated Press State
Wire: Maine (ME) - October 4, 2018
October 4, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maine (ME)

ROCHEST ER, N.H. (AP) — T he Attorney General's office ruled Thursday that law enforcement
officers were justified in shooting dead a New Hampshire man who led them on a brief chase
before crashing his car.

In dramatic dash cam video and footage from a private cellphone of the August shooting,
Doug las H eath
Doug las H eath, 38, of Rochester, can be seen falling out of his crashed vehicle with a semi-
automatic pistol in his hand. It was released at a press conference about a report on whether the
use of force was justified.

Officers in the video repeatedly ask to see Heath's hands before screaming for him to drop his
gun. Heath appears to ignore the commands, firing off two shots in the direction of one officer
and then a third. T hat prompts four officers to fire off 30 shots at him. About 15 shots hit Heath,
who rolls on the ground. A dispatcher can be heard saying "shots fired, one down" before officers
approach Heath, who lays motionless.

T oxicology test later revealed that Heath tested positive for several drugs, including fentanyl and
methamphetamines.

"Based on the facts and circumstances in the case, the attorney general has concluded that
Doug las H eath
Doug las Heath created a dangerous and life-threatening situation, in which he placed in direct
harm numerous people in his vicinity," according to report on the shooting involving State
T roopers Haden Wilber and Nathaniel Goodwin and Rochester Police Detectives Geoff Moore and
Michael Lambert.

"Consequently, it was reasonable for law enforcement faced with an ongoing deadly threat ... to
use deadly force against Douglas H eath
Doug las Heath in order to protect their own lives and those of other
people in the area," the report added.

Officers were trying to stop Heath, who was wanted on three outstanding warrants, including one
for trafficking narcotics and another for fleeing from Maine troopers. T he highway chase reached
upward of 80 miles per hour before Heath missed a turn and crashed into a building.

T here have been three-officer involved shootings this year in New Hampshire.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 