AG: Deadly force justified in Rochester police- - New Hampshire Union
Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) - October 5,
2018 - page 3
October 5, 2018 | New Hampshire Union Leader / New Hampshire Sunday News (Manchester, NH) |
KIMBERLEY HAAS Union Leader Correspondent | Page 3

Findings: Officials presented results of investigation into the August incident that led to the death
Doug las H eath.
of Douglas H eath

ROCHEST ER -- Officials at the Attorney General’s Office have concluded police used reasonable
force when they shot and killed a man after a high-speed chase in Rochester this summer.

Doug las H eath
Doug las H eath, 38, was shot up to 15 times after he pulled a stolen semiautomatic pistol on
police and began firing the afternoon of Aug. 20.On Thursday afternoon, Senior Assistant Attorney
General Peter Hinckley went through an hour-long presentation detailing the results of their
investigation during a press briefing at Rochester City Hall. He was joined by Attorney General
Gordon MacDonald, State Police Col. Christopher Wagner, Rochester Police Chief Paul T oussaint
and state troopers.Hinckley released the 43-page report he compiled and shared three videos
which captured the incident. Two were from Rochester police vehicle cameras and one was taken
by a private citizen.T he report says Rochester police initially learned about Heath and the two
warrants out for his arrest on Aug. 15. Detective Geoff Moore wrote an officer safety briefing
form to notify fellow officers.T he form said Heath may be in possession of three firearms and “he
has no intention of going to jail.”On Aug. 18, Moore spotted Heath get into a white Cadillac SUV in
Rochester and police officers tried to stop him, but according to the report, he sped away.Moore
passed Heath driving the same SUV two days later on Aug. 20 just before 3 p.m. Moore radioed
for assistance from Rochester police and state police.Officers were warned Heath may be
armed.T rooper Haden Wilber was one of the state police officers who responded to Moore’s call
for backup. Wilber was familiar with Heath’s name and had reason to believe he frequently was at
the Riviera Motel located on Route 125 in Rochester, the report says.When Wilber pulled into the
parking lot of the motel Heath was there in his vehicle. Heath took off and a police pursuit
began.Heath crashed two miles north at the Oak Street intersection. Hinckley said they
determined he was traveling about 70 miles an hour seconds before he lost control of the
SUV.“T he posted speed limit for this area is 35 miles per hour,” Hinckley said Thursday as he
showed media and members of the public in attendance of the briefing an aerial photo taken by
state police after the shooting.Hinckley said Wilber, Rochester Police Officer Michael Lambert and
T rooper Nathaniel Goodwin arrived at the crash scene seconds after the crash. T here were several
private citizens who were stopped at the intersection.“Mr. Heath left the SUV through the front
passenger door and he fell to the ground. Mr. Heath held in his left hand a loaded semiautomatic
pistol. Within seconds of Mr. Heath getting out of that crashed SUV, and despite commands from
Officer Lambert to drop his weapon, Mr. Heath pulled back on the slide of the pistol that he held,”
Hinckley said.Heath fired a shot. When Heath fired a second time two seconds later, his pistol was
pointed in the direction of Lambert, Goodwin and at least one private citizen, which can be seen on
two of the videos.When a third shot hit the roof of a pickup truck being driven by a bystander,

Lambert, Goodwin and Wilber fired their weapons at Heath.Moore also fired at Heath after seeing
him shooting in his direction when he arrived on scene.A total of 30 shots were fired, according to
the report.Heath was struck at close range when he shot himself in the face while rolling on the
ground. It took seconds to minutes for him to die, Hinckley said.At the time of his death, Heath
had fentanyl, amphetamine and methamphetamine in his system, Hinckley said.While watching the
police and cellphone videos, 20-year-old Skyeann Sullivan of Rochester began to cry. She said after
the briefing Heath took care of her and her siblings before he got involved in drugs and she
considered him her father.“I just want everybody to realize that’s what drugs do to you. He wasn’t
like that beforehand. And even on drugs, he was still a nice person. He just didn’t know what to do
with himself anymore,” Sullivan said.Sullivan said she appeared at the briefing because she wanted
to stand up for Heath and her family while getting closure through hearing from officials.Wagner
and T oussaint both offered Sullivan their condolences before the briefing ended.“On behalf of the
Rochester Police Department, we offer our sincere condolences,” T oussaint said. “In particular, we
admire your strength.”

Copyrig ht, 2018, Union Leader Corp.

 