
 
VINELAND –A 911 call reporting a stranger on a porch who wouldn't leave brought police to the West Wood Street

home where an officer fatally shot the suspect on July 14. 

On Wednesday, the Vineland Police Department released a transcript of the initial 911 call that preceded a 28-

minute encounter ending in the police-involved shooting of Rashaun "Pac Man" Washington. 

The transcript was stripped of identifying information. "Redactions were made to safeguard the identity of the

caller," police explained, referring to reports of threats. 

At 11:22 a.m. July 14, the call came into the city's police dispatch, transferred from the Cumberland County 911

Emergency Communications Center. 

Vineland Dispatcher: 911 where's your emergency? 

County Dispatcher: Vineland, it's Cumberland County with a transfer. I have [Redaction] on the line. [Redaction] at

[Redaction]. [Redaction] reporting that someone's on [Redaction] porch sitting there. [Redaction] asked them to

leave, they won't. [Redaction] doesn't know who they are. [Redaction] calling from [Redaction]. 

Caller: Yeah it's a black dude, he's sitting there, [Redaction] don't even know [Redaction]. And he's over there sitting

on the porch [Redaction]. He says he's waiting for backup. I don't know who he is. I've never seen him and he's just

Vineland Dispatcher: OK, hello. 

Caller: Yeah hi. 

Vineland Dispatcher: Hi and the person's just sitting there? 

sitting there. 

Vineland Dispatcher: OK, what color shirt is he wearing? 

Caller: He has no shirt. He's wearing tan pants. 

Vineland Dispatcher: No shirt and tan pants? 

Caller: Yeah, he doesn't have no shirt. 

Vineland Dispatcher: OK, is he being disorderly or ...? 

Vineland Dispatcher: Like he's on something? 

Caller: He looks like he's on something. 

Vineland Dispatcher: OK, we'll have an officer on the way. 

Caller: All right. 

Vineland Dispatcher: All right, bye bye. 

headquarters. 

'shoot him/kill him' once police arrived." 

explosive device that will take him ... out." 

Several officers were dispatched to the area of Wood Street and the Boulevard, about a block from police

At 11:36 a.m., a dispatcher noted the "male subject has something under his white shirt and is stating for police to

Nine minutes later, a dispatcher notes the "male subject is reporting to officers on location that he has an

The release of the 911 transcript comes six days after the Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office released videos

recorded by Vineland police body cameras of the deadly encounter and an appeal from Washington's family for an

Caller: Well [Redaction] asked him to move and [Redaction]. He's acting like, I don't know ... 

independent investigation into the shooting. 

Body camera videos show police speaking with the 37-year-old Bridgeton man, trying to determine why he is upset

and urging him to calm down as he tells police he has an explosive device. 

"Stay calm for us, OK," an officer tells Washington, urging him think of his children. "We can talk about this." 

"What can we do for you?" an officer asks Washington as he paces back and forth while holding something

wrapped in a shirt. An officer demands Washington put the shirt on the ground so they can talk. 

"What can we do to help you?" the officer ask him. 

Then in an instant, Washington appears to approach an officer. Shots are fired, and Washington falls to the

The details of what unfolded remain under investigation by the Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office and

Washington's family is calling for the state Attorney General's Office to conduct an independent investigation into

the shooting and additional training for police officers. 

A prosecutor's office statement released last week noted Washington was "acting suspiciously" and alluded to

having an "explosive device" while holding something wrapped in a T-shirt, which later turned out to be a garden

ground. 

debated by the public. 

shear with 81/4-inch blade. 

453-0486, ext. 11197. 

The prosecutor's office asks anyone with information about the incident to contact Detective Joseph Lowry at 856-

Anyone who wants to share information anonymously may download CCPOTIP app for Android or iPhone devices;

send a tip via text to 847411, using the keyword CCPOTIP in the message line; or submit a tip at the prosecutor's

Facebook page or website, njccop.org. 

Deborah M. Marko: 856-563-5256; dmarko@gannettnj.com; Twitter: @dmarko_dj 

Family and friends of Rashaun Washington join demonstrators in front of the Vineland Police Department on July

Company / organization:

Name: Twitter Inc; NAICS: 519130; Name: Facebook Inc; NAICS: 518210, 519130

Publication title:

Daily Journal; Vineland, N.J.

19. 

Joe Lamberti/Staff Photographer 

CREDIT: Deborah M. Marko 
 
 
