
 
VINELAND –Community members gathered July 19 at the site where Rashaun Washington died in a weekend

police-involved shooting, to comfort his family and call for action. 

"We're not talking politics here. We are here as a community to support the family," community leader Josh

Barreiro said. "What we're trying to do is put pressure to call for an outside investigation into the shooting —we

also want better training for the law enforcement officers." 

"This family is hurting," he told the crowd of about 50 people. "We feel their pain." 

It was the second such gathering at the Boulevard and Wood Street since the shooting. 

Washington's family tied a cluster of silver and blue balloons to a tree, just above a makeshift memorial of candles,

bears and written tributes to the 37-year-old Bridgeton man. 

To the chants of those assembled, they unfurled a banner calling for "Justice for Pac Man," a family nickname for

Family members voiced their frustration with the investigation since the July 14 shooting. 

"I want them to start telling us something, give us some answers," Tiffany Washington said. "We want complete

"He was a fun-loving person, he loved to play and joke around a lot," she said. "He loved his children, he loved his

Washington. 

justice for my brother." 

family." 

Washington was the father of two children and stepfather to two others, she said. 

The gathering, led by three generations of the Washington family, took to Wood Street to march about a block to

the Vineland police station while chanting "No Justice, No Peace" and "Black Lives Matter," 

Along the way, they passed a group that gathered at the corner of Sixth and Wood streets to show their support for

When the marchers arrived at the police station entrance, Steven Young, president of the South Jersey chapter of

the National Action Network civil rights group, requested respect and support for the Washington family. 

"We do understand that there are some problems in our community, but human beings' lives matter," Young said,

setting off a chorus of "yes" cheers. 

"This is the way the community mourns, in the street, peacefully and to get results," he said. "It's about

transparency, accountability and access to the information to find out the truth of what's going on in Vineland as

the police. 

this point." 

Many of those gathered, Young said, were local families who are raising children. 

"We want to leave a legacy of peace and happiness, not mourning and not funerals, we are tired of it," Young said,

acknowledging the recent death of a child by a stray bullet. 

A 9-year-old Bridgeton girl, Jennifer Trejo, was struck by errant gunfire July 17 as she slept in her home. 

"It's very important if you know something, speak up," Young said. 

For Barbara Jackson, 60, of Newfield, it was her first public protest. She made a sign and took a place in the circle

"It's all over Facebook," she said, noting those accounts of the shooting so close to home "motivated me to come

around the family. 

on out." 

"You just don't shoot without finding out what the problem is —what if that was my brother?" Jackson said. 

She spoke with the outrage voiced by several at the rally. 

"Stop killing black people for no reason at all," Jackson said, while holding out hope for the next generation "to love

one another, I mean come on, we need peace. It's bad enough we've been at war with each other for centuries and

it's senseless, just senseless. How would you feel in our skin?" 

Mirabella Meotti, 41, of Vineland resides down the street from where the shooting unfolded and was familiar with

Washington. She noted his behavior was unusual that day. 

"I'm hoping changes are made," she said. "I don't think the police should have shot him. They should have Maced

him or used a baton or something." 

The encounter gave Meotti a change of heart about calling the police for assistance if someone were on drugs. 

"I would not call the police. I will try to find someone to take them to the hospital," she said. 

The protest came just hours after the prosecutor's office released several videos, recorded by Vineland police body

cameras, that show the events leading up to Washington's death. 

A prosecutor's office statement said police responding to a report of a person "acting suspiciously" had an

approximately 28-minute encounter with Washington during which he alluded to having an "explosive device" while

holding something wrapped in a T-shirt. 

After a Vineland officer fired his weapon at Washington and a K-9 was used in an attempt to "immobilize" him,

police learned the item inside the T-shirt was actually a garden shear with an 81/4-inch blade, the prosecutor's

office said. 

Community leader Tracey Huggins called for "equitable justice. 

Standing in solidarity with Washington family "is the same way we need to react each and every time there is an

act of violence in our community," she said. "That way people will understand indeed that our lives matter; black

lives can't matter where black love does not exist. 

"We need to get together, we need to stop acting like it's only the cops that are doing wrong by us," Huggins said.

"We have to own the fact that we need to be accountable each and every day, because if we are really going to live

our lives the way we have a mandate from God to do, it needs to be with each and every one of us, each and every

day, each and every moment." 

our son, it could be my son." 

Addressing the Washington family, Huggins said, "We feel your pain, because it could be our brother, it could be

Next, the community leaders are drafting a letter to U.S. Sens. Cory Booker and Bob Menendez requesting the

state Attorney General's Office conduct an independent investigation of the shooting. They requested those

present download it, sign it and mail it to the legislators. 

"We need to let them know how the community feels," Barreiro said. 

Deborah M. Marko:856-563-5256; dmarko@gannettnj.com: Twitter: @dmarko_dj 

Demonstrators rally in support of the late Rashaun Washington, 37, in Vineland. 

Joe Lamberti/Courier Post 

CREDIT: Deborah M. Marko 
 
 
