
 
VINELAND –On Saturday, Jamal Johnson, along with the Stop Killing Us initiative, plans to launch a 150-mile

march to Washington, D.C., to end police shootings from the site where Rashaun Washington died July 14 in a

police-involved shooting. 

Caucus. 

The mission is to present the Stop Killing Us Universal Standards for Law Enforcement to the Congressional Black

"We want to end the daily police murders of people and point towards some solutions that could change policing

nationwide," Johnson said. "Also, we want to encourage safer streets in our neighborhoods by reducing crime and

preventing further gun violence." 

They plan to hold a rally at 11 a.m. in the area of Wood and Fourth streets and kick off the march at noon headed

down Landis Avenue to Route 55 to begin the trek to Washington, D.C. 

Anyone is welcome to join in along the way, Johnson said. 

Washington died after police responded to a 911 call about a person sitting on a porch who was asked to leave. 

Body camera videos show police speaking with the 37-year-old Bridgeton man as he tells officers he has an

explosive device while holding something wrapped in a T-shirt. 

After the 28-minute encounter, Washington appears to approach an officer. Shots are fired, and Washington falls

to the ground. The item in the shirt was reported to be a garden shear. 

What unfolded remains under investigation by the Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office. 

Johnson, 61, a U.S. Marine disabled veteran, made a similar march last year to the U.S. Justice Department. That

march called for changes that he said he hasn't yet seen. 

Johnson said he is trying again. 

"It's all about making an effort," he told The Daily Journal. 

This time, they are presenting the Stop Killing Us Universal Standards for Law Enforcement to the caucus. 

The standards, Johnson said, are based on the U.S. Constitution and include: 

Abolishing no-knock searches, noting they are not worth the high risk of loss of life to residences, visitors or law

enforcement. 

Elimination of "the blue wall of silence" that might prohibit law enforcement agents reporting on a colleague's

errors, misconducts, crimes, brutality or criminal involvement in an act of murder or manslaughter. 

Transparency related to law enforcement handling of video-recorded encounters with the public. 

All local municipalities establish an independent citizens' review board. 

Any police officer or law enforcement officer using excessive force of any kind be immediately removed from the

agency/department and prosecuted. 

During a July 19 march, Rashaun Washington's family also called for changes. They requested additional training

for police officers and for the state Attorney General's Office conduct an independent investigation into the

Deborah . Marko; 856-563-5256; dmarko@gannettnj.com; Twitter: @dmarko_dj 

A memorial made for a Bridgeton man, 37, who was fatally shot by police this past Saturday in Vineland. 

shooting. 

Joe Lamberti/ 

Courier Post 

CREDIT: Deborah M. Marko 
 
 
