DA clears Bartlesville officers - TOWNSEND - Bartlesville Examiner-
Enterprise (OK) - February 9, 2018 - page A1
February 9, 2018 | Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise (OK) | Tim Hudson | Page A1

District Attorney Kevin Buchanan announced Friday that he will not pursue charges against
Bartlesville police officers involved in the Jan. 17 shooting death of Geraldine T ownsend
Bartlesville.

Geraldine Townsend of

Buchanan received the report from the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation about its
investigation into the shooting incident on Feb. 1. T he report consisted of more than 200
documents, recorded interviews and scene photos. Buchanan based his decision on the report's
findings.

Here' is Buchanan's statement:

On Jan. 17th, Bartlesville Police officers executed a search warrant on Maple Street in Bartlesville
prior to 10 p.m. An officer had witnessed what he believed to be an illegal drug sale at the
residence. T he purchaser of the drugs was stopped and drugs in his possession were confirmed.
T his was the basis for the issuance of the search warrant.

Officers discussed the execution of the warrant before going to Maple Street, with specific
assignments being given to each. Officers arrived and before approaching the house, one officer
turned on his personal cellphone and placed it on the front of his ballistic vest which recorded both
audio and video portions of the events that followed. Bartlesville officers do not have city issued
"body cameras."

One officer loudly knocked on the front door and announced "Police, Search Warrant" three times.
All reported hearing a voice, the words unintelligible. No apparent attempt was being made to
respond to the door, and officers forced entry into the house. Upon entry, the officers
encountered Michael Livingston who complied with commands to lie on the ground.

As Livingston was being secured, additional officers began to look through the rest of the house
for any other occupants. Almost immediately, one officer (Officer 1) felt something strike his leg
and heard a "popping noise." Officer 1 then saw Geraldine T ownsend
Geraldine Townsend in or near the doorway of a
bedroom pointing a handgun at him. Officer 1 began yelling at her to drop the gun. A fellow officer
(Officer 2), seeing Officer 1 seeking cover and hearing his commands, got in position to help.
Officer 2 was struck in the face, saw the gun held by Townsend and returned fire striking her once
in the chest. Officer 2 later had a BB surgically removed from his face. Officers and emergency
personnel both rendered aide to Townsend but were unable to prevent her passing.

T he eventual search of the home produced what the state believes is marijuana, monitors
displaying the approaches from both the front and back of the home, and a police band radio on
and monitoring the Bartlesville Police channel. These all led to some of the charges filed against

Livingston. At no point in the events outlined above, from the decision to conduct surveillance to
conclusion of the processing the scene of the shooting was Livingston's former father-in-law, a
Bartlesville Reserve officer, involved in any way.

T he most consequential items found in the house are the replica BB guns, one of which T ownsend
had been given to "defend" herself.

T wo attached pages contain photos of the replica pistols and real handguns. Townsend was using
the one depicted with the yellow tag attached (Umarex T PD 45). Below it is an actual 9mm
handgun (Sig Sauer P250). T he second page contains revolvers. T he top one (Bear River Revolver)
was found in the house near the suspected marijuana. T he bottom is an internet image of an
actual Ruger .357 magnum revolver. T his author was not personally familiar with the degree to
which some of the replica handguns are manufactured to imitate real guns. But this author is
familiar with the regularity that law enforcement officers encounter these replicas. It is the
intention of this office the use to circumstances of this tragic death to seek a change in the law.
Currently, convicted felons, such as Livingston, are prohibited from possessing firearms. T hat
includes BB guns that have been altered. T he "altered" language is a reference to orange or other
brightly colored tips that were once mandated for other toys, but not BB guns. Convicted felons
know the law. T hey can carry a replica BB gun and not violate the law as long as they have not
altered it, say by removing something intended to indicate that it is not a real gun. But today's
replicas don't need to be altered in any way. So, their desire to carry one begs the question "why."
T he quality of the replication absolutely creates the impression that the person carrying one is in
fact armed. Providing Townsend with the one depicted and planting the idea in her mind that it
should be used to confront an armed police, or other, intruder, directly lead to her death. Charges
against Livingston will be amended to include possession of a firearm after former conviction of a
felony. T his office will initiate the process of asking the Court of Criminal Appeals to revisit its 1971
decision that unaltered BB pistols are not prohibited under the law for convicted felons.

Copyrig ht 2018 Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise, All Rights Reserved.

 