Video shows Bartlesville police officer shouting - Tulsa World (OK) -
January 30, 2018
January 30, 2018 | Tulsa World (OK) | Staff Writer Harrison Grimwood

A Bartlesville police officer shouted at a woman to put down a gun during a marijuana raid in which
she was fatally shot, video released Monday shows.

T he woman fired a pellet gun at officers in the midst of the Jan. 17 confrontation, striking one in
the leg and another in the face, according to the Bartlesville Police Department.

Geraldine T ownsend.
One of the officers shot the woman, identified as 72-year-old Geraldine T ownsend

T he officers have not been identified.

Police raided the residence on allegations that the woman's 50-year-old son, Michael Anthony
Livingston, was distributing marijuana from the home.

Livingston and Townsend resided in the home, located in the 1600 block of South Maple Avenue.
Earlier that week, police reportedly arrested one of Livingston's customers during a traffic stop.

T he video was taken from a camera worn by one of the officers.

Police served the search warrant about 9:30 p.m., knocking and announcing their presence three
times, according to the video. After entering the residence, police reportedly took Livingston into
custody in the living room.

T ownsend reportedly came from a bedroom and confronted officers with the pellet gun.

"Put that f---- — gun down, put the f---- — gun down," an officer shouts on the video.

An officer opens fire, shooting Townsend at least once. Livingston yells at officers that T ownsend
is wielding a pellet gun.

"It's a BB gun," Livingston shouts. "T hat my mother, man; that's a BB gun."

Livingston pleads with officers as they take him out of the house, asking multiple times to see his
mother.

"Please, man, y'all killed my momma," Livingston can be heard telling police in the video. "She didn't
know — she was asleep. Go look at her."

"She shot me; shut up," an officer yells.

T ownsend and one of the injured officers were taken to a hospital, where Townsend died.

T he officer Townsend shot in the face was the officer who shot her, Bartlesville Police Capt. Jay
Hastings said.

In the video, other officers surround their wounded colleague to inspect his injuries after Livingston
is in custody.

T he wounded officer, who appears to still be holding his service weapon, says he saw T ownsend
"pointing a … gun."

"Looks like she stopped and shot Steven (sic), and then I come back around to cover him and she
point it at me again and blam," the officer states in the video. "And then I f---- — shot."

Hastings said the officer who shot the woman is on paid administrative leave pending an
investigation by the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation. A report by the OSBI will be
forwarded to the Washington County District Attorney's Office to determine whether the shooting
of Townsend was justified.

Livingston was booked into Washington County jail, where he is being held in lieu of a $500,000
bond. At some point after his arrest, he allegedly threatened to kill the officers involved in the raid.

Washington County prosecutors charged Livingston with unlawful possession of a controlled drug
with intent to distribute, keeping a house where controlled substances are sold, unlawful
possession of surveillance equipment, possession of a listening device and threatening to perform
an act of violence.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Tulsa World. World Publishing  Co.

 