Pueblo police shoot suspect who brandished gun; - Pueblo Chieftain,
The (CO) - March 7, 2018
March 7, 2018 | Pueblo Chieftain, The (CO) | Zachary Hillstrom

T wo Pueblo Police officers are on paid administrative leave after shooting and killing a man who
allegedly produced a handgun during a brief chase Tuesday evening.

Police came in contact with the suspect, who was later identified by Pueblo County Coroner Brian
Cotter as 55-year-old Steven Peters
on the 900 block of East Ninth Street.

Steven Peters , while responding to a report of a restraining violation order

A female caller had told police that Peters was refusing to leave her home and was in possession
of a firearm.

Peters reportedly left the woman's residence traveling on a bicycle and when officers approached
him at the nearby intersection of East Ninth Street and North Iola Avenue, refused to comply with
their commands and reportedly reached for his waistband.

Police say the officers deployed a stun gun on Peters but were unable to subdue him, due to the
fact he was wearing a thick jacket that the instrument's barbs were unable to penetrate.

Peters resisted the stun gun and began running. After a short foot chase through the yards of
neighboring homes, the officers found him in the backyard of a home on the 900 block of East
Eighth Street.

It was at this point Peters allegedly produced a handgun, prompting the two officers to fire their
service weapons.

Peters was pronounced dead at the scene and no officers or citizens were reported injured during
the incident.

According to Pueblo Police Department spokesman Kenny Rider, the body cameras of both
officers were recording at the time of the incident and an initial viewing of the footage collected
showed the officers repeatedly commanding Peters to drop the gun before they eventually fired.

T he names of the officers involved will be released at a later time.

T he 10th Judicial District Critical Incident Team has begun its investigation into the shooting, which
is standard protocol when a law enforcement official engages a criminal suspect with deadly force.

zhillstrom@ chieftain.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, Pueblo Chieftain, The, All Rights Reserved.

 