Shootout kills marshal, suspect - Two police - Morning Call, The
(Allentown, PA) - January 19, 2018 - page 1A
January 19, 2018 | Morning Call, The (Allentown, PA) | Steve Esack | Page 1A

A gun threat over a double-parked car three months ago.

T hat, authorities said, sparked a shootout Thursday morning in Harrisburg that left a deputy U.S.
marshal dead, a police officer wounded and another hit but unharmed because of his armored
vest.

Deputy Marshal Christopher David Hill, 45, a married father of two, was shot and killed when he
and other members of the marshals' Fugitive T ask Force served an arrest warrant at a home in a
city neighborhood, authorities said. Court records say the woman wanted on the warrant pointed a
gun at another woman during a parking spat in November.

Authorities said a man shot at officers when they came to arrest the woman at 6:30 a.m., and they
returned fire, killing the man.

"Christopher Hill died a hero today," U.S. Attorney Dave Freed said during a news conference at the
federal building in Harrisburg about eight hours after the fatal encounter. "We will honor his
memory by standing with his family and his brothers and sisters in law enforcement."

York police officer Kyle Pitts, a 10-year veteran of the city police department and a member of the
task force, was wounded in the shooting in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street, Freed said. A
Harrisburg officer was shot in his body armor and was not injured, he added.

Authorities later identified the shooter as Kevin Sturg is
outstanding warrants for skipping a sentencing hearing on a gun charge and failing to appear at a
probation violation hearing concerning a past charge of receiving stolen property and unauthorized
use of a car. Sturgis had nine closed adult criminal cases dating to 2005 and juvenile adjudication
for rape.

Kevin Sturg is , 31, of Philadelphia. He had his own

T he woman who was the subject of the warrant was identified as Shayla Lynette T owles Pierce, 30.
She was sent to Dauphin County jail under $200,000 bail on charges of making terroristic threats,
simple assault and carrying a firearm without a license.

According to Freed, this is how investigators, so far, believe the shooting unfolded:

T ask force officers, armed with the arrest warrant, arrived at the house on Mulberry Street in the
Allison Hill neighborhood, 1.5 miles from the state Capitol complex. T hey knocked, identified
themselves and entered through the front door. Pierce and two children then appeared at the top
of the steps. She surrendered and was handcuffed.

T hen shots rang out from the second floor, hitting Hill and Pitts. T he other officers got the
wounded out the back door and set up a perimeter while Hill was rushed to a downtown hospital,
where he later died.

Dauphin County District Attorney Fran Chardo said during the news conference that an early review
indicates the shooting was justifiable self-defense. T he shooter started firing first, he said.

Pitts, the York officer, was undergoing surgery and expected to make a full recovery.

Dauphin County Court records show Harrisburg police filed a criminal complaint Dec. 2 for Pierce.

According to that criminal complaint:

On Nov. 25, Harrisburg police officer Rachel James responded to a call at 1837 Mulberry St. A
woman told James she asked another woman - later identified as Pierce - to move her double-
parked car out of the street. Rather than comply, Pierce pulled a gun from her purse, pointed it at
the woman's head and said, "I'll shoot you," before lowering the gun and then raising it again in a
menacing fashion.

T he woman took a picture of the double-parked car's license plate and police tracked the car's
owner to the location of the call, 1837 Mulberry St., but police could not track the owner down. T he
woman picked Pierce's photo out of a lineup, allowing James to file the warrant.

T he task force is composed of federal marshals, local and state police and county sheriffs. It
serves federal court warrants and helps track down fugitives.

U.S. Marshal Martin Pane, who heads the services' central Pennsylvania office, said Hill was one of
the best at his job, using knowledge and skills learned as an Army Ranger to perform tactical
maneuvers and handle explosives, all while never losing his sense of humor.

"I ask that you keep his wife and two children in your thoughts and prayers in this difficult time,"
Pane said while fighting back emotions.

"No words can adequately express the sadness we feel at this moment as we contemplate the
loss of yet another law enforcement officer in the line of duty," Harrisburg Mayor Eric Papenfuse
said.

T he shooting occurred a block away from where police shot and killed a man last month after he
drove around the city shooting at police cars.

A third shooting occurred in the same area in the last four months, said Ron Segrist, 53, who lives
on Mulberry Street.

"A nice old guy was shot in the leg," he said. "It's just bizarre. So much hate on one block."

steve.esack@mcall.com

T witter @sesack

717-783-7309

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, The Morning  Call, Inc.

 