How an arrest turned deadly - Witnesses describe - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - January 21, 2018 - page A1
January 21, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Christine Vendel | Page A1

DEPUT Y U.S. MARSHAL SLAIN

T he sound of gunshots rousted residents out of bed in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street early
T hursday and several of them peered outside to see what was going on.

T hat’s when they witnessed a life-or-death gunbattle playing out in front of them between a
wanted man and several police officers.

T he neighbors didn’t know it at the time, but the wanted man had just shot two officers from a U.S.
Marshals Service fugitive apprehension team inside the home.

One of the officers was hit in the chest through a gap in the side of his bullet-resistant vest,
according to sources, and he later died. T he other officer suffered an injury to his arm.

After hearing about six gunshots from inside the house, several neighbors saw the gunman barge
out the front door while holding a gun. Several officers already were stationed outside. T he
gunman had his gun pointed at an officer in the street in front of him, according to neighbors.

T he gunman dove head-first off the front porch, into the snow and slid behind a parked car. He
then popped up between the cars and fired at offi

cers as officers returned gunfire.

Diane Stinson said she saw an officer shooting over the top of a parked PT  Cruiser toward where
her car was parked.

T he gunman crept around a parked car and then ran down the street, according to Stinson and
other neighbors, as officers fired at him. T he gunman darted back in between two parked cars, and
officers lost sight of him in the darkness.

An officer walked down the sidewalk with a flashlight as a neighbor pointed out where the gunman
was last seen.

T hat’s when the officer spotted the gunman hiding under a vehicle.

“Don’t move!” the officer shouted.

Neighbors then heard the officer fire about 15 gunshots. After that, another officer pointed a rifle
to the gunman’s head and repeated the command, “Don’t move.”

T he officers handcuffed the gunman and moved his body to the middle of the street, where he
died.

Meanwhile, other officers were working furiously to remove the wounded officers from the back
of the house and get them to hospitals.

Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher D. Hill, 45, died at a hospital from his injuries. He was described as
highly trained and the “cream of the crop.” York city Officer Kyle Pitts underwent surgery for a
wound to his arm.

A Harrisburg officer stationed outside the home was struck in the chest by a projectile, but his
bullet-resistant vest bolstered with a steel plate protected him.

A team of seven officers executed the arrest warrant T hursday, according to U.S. Marshal Martin
Pane and all members were wearing body armor.

T he task force comprises federally employed marshals, such as Hill, as well as local officers who
are deputized to serve on the task force.

While all members were protected by bullet-resistant vests, in some situations like T hursday,
gunfire can hit officers in areas not protected by vests.

Law enforcement officials provided a brief description of the shootout at a 2 p.m. news
conference T hursday. But neighbors on Friday provided more details from their vantage points
after officers took down the crime scene tape that had previously locked down the block.

Many of the vehicles parked in the area of the shooting bore visible bullet holes on Friday.

T he property owner where the shooting took place allowed PennLive/T he Patriot-News into the
home, where a repairman was patching up more than a dozen bullet holes. T he house had been
thoroughly searched by investigators and left in disarray with piles of clothing and personal
belongings mixed with framed photos and children’s athletic trophies.

Bullet holes inside the home were concentrated in walls near the stairwell, where officials say the
gunman surprised officers from the second-floor. T he officers had been handcuffing Shayla
T owles Pierce and preparing to search the rest of the home when bullets suddenly rained down.

Pierce, 30, had lived at the rented home for three years with her children and she was the focus of
the arrest warrant for allegedly pointing a gun at the head of a driver last year.

Neighbors said Kevin Sturg is
Kevin Sturg is , 31, of Philadelphia, was Pierce’s boyfriend and that he had been
staying at the home for about five months. Officials have declined to establish their relationship.

As it turned out, he also was wanted for failing to appear in two separate court cases from
Philadelphia.

After Sturgis shot officers and fled the home, neighbors said Pierce ran onto the front porch amid
the chaos and shouted to officers outside: “Don’t kill him! Don’t kill him!”

Pierce’s relatives returned to the home Friday to collect personal belongings for Pierce and her
children. Pierce remained behind bars with a $200,000 bail.

T he children had been inside the home during the initial volley of gunfire T hursday, and then
ushered out the back door, according to neighbors.

T he relatives did not want to comment to PennLive/T he Patriot-News, but Pierce’s father said of
T hursday’s tragedy: “It wasn’t her. It was him.”

T he U.S. Marshal’s team recognized the potential violence that could come with serving the high-
risk warrant, which is why it was scheduled at 6 a.m. But many details from inside the house still
remain unknown as federal and state investigators methodically interview witnesses and officers
and compare physical evidence from the scene.

Newly seated U.S. Attorney David Freed hinted in his comments that there could be a larger story
behind why the elite federal task force was sent to the home.

As far as decision to use the marshal’s service, Freed said, “It’s not just every warrant out there
that the locals call up the marshals and say let’s go grab this person.”

Freed said more information would come out later about the reasons for the tactical raid.
“Although we don’t know at this point,” he said, “we will know what the larger purpose was for them
being there.”

T he bullet holes inside the home were marked with evidence numbers for tracking purposes, but
the numbers aren’t necessarily indicative of the sequential status of each gunshot.

)Bullets and fragments removed from walls and recovered from the scene will be compared to
officers’ guns and the gunman’s weapon.

T he FBI has taken the lead on a criminal investigation that could potentially lead to additional
charges against Pierce.

T he Dauphin County district attorney’s office is heading the investigation into whether the fatal
police shooting of Sturgis was justified.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 