Gunman in raid was shot 18 times - DA releases - Patriot-News, The
(Harrisburg, PA) - March 8, 2018 - page A3
March 8, 2018 | Patriot-News, The (Harrisburg, PA) | Christine Vendel | Page A3

Harrisburg

Kevin Sturg is
Kevin Sturg is  fired the first shot inside a Harrisburg house in January, authorities said, hitting a
U.S. marshals task force member in the elbow.

It was the only shot he fired inside the house in the 1800 block of Mulberry Street, authorities
confirmed this week.

Sturgis fired three more bullets outside of the house, including one that hit a Harrisburg officer in
his bullet-resistant vest, said District Attorney Fran Chardo, who provided more details about the
police-involved shooting to PennLive/T he Patriot-News this week.

Chardo would not say how many rounds of gunfire were fired by members of the task force, but
Sturgis was hit 18 times, including seven graze wounds.

One bullet pierced his aorta, Chardo said, causing him to die in the street almost instantly. He was
pronounced dead and his body was not moved while police collected evidence, Chardo said.

It’s unclear whether Sturgis received some of his injuries as gunfire was exchanged inside the
house or during an ensuing gun battle in the street amid residents’ parked vehicles.

But many of his wounds likely came at the end, when a task force member found Sturgis hiding
between two parked cars. Sturgis pointed a pistol at the officer, Chardo said, and the officer fatally
shot Sturgis.

T he pistol and two shell casings fired from it were found near where Sturgis was fatally shot,
Chardo said. T he district attorney ruled the shooting death justifiable.

T he new information from Chardo came less than a week after authorities disclosed for the first
time that a deputy U.S. marshal killed during the Jan. 18 raid of the home was struck by a bullet fired
by an officer, not Sturgis.

T he fatal bullet that struck Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher Hill in his unprotected armpit area was
one of several bullets that came through a wall behind Sturgis as at least one officer returned fire
in the initial volley of gunfire inside the home.

Sturgis was wanted for skipping bail and failing to appear at his Jan. 5, 2017, sen

ing for a 2014 gun crime, where he was likely facing five to 10 years in prison. A prosecutor was

pushing for serious jail time noting that Sturgis had been arrested 11 times and had six convictions,
not including a rape case as a juvenile.

He had been convicted in October 2016 of illegally carrying a gun in his car.

Less than one month after that conviction, while he was out on $1 bond, Philadelphia police allege
Sturgis nearly killed his pregnant girlfriend in the 800 block of East Price Street.

Police got a call about the sound of gunshots just after midnight, and officers found a 25-year-old
woman with two gunshot wounds to her right arm and one to her chest. She was critically
wounded but survived. Police did not have any information about the status of the baby.

While Sturgis was wanted for serious crimes, the U.S. Marshals Service maintains that the task
force was at Shayla Pierce’s house on Mulberry Street on Jan. 18 to arrest Pierce, not Sturgis, who
was apparently hiding out there.

Authorities had a warrant for the arrest of Pierce for illegal gun possession and two
misdemeanors. It’s unclear why this gun case would draw the attention of a federal task force as
illegal gun cases in the city are common.

A Marshals Service spokeswoman said the Harrisburg police department asked for their assistance
in arresting Pierce, but police Chief Thomas Carter said he could not comment on who asked for
the federal assistance.

Adding to the confusion about the genesis of the raid, a prosecutor had just dropped a child-abuse
case against Pierce two weeks prior, as Pierce stood in Dauphin County Court before a judge.

Now, Pierce could face additional charges from federal authorities, who have filed a detainer on
her to keep her behind bars. She has remained in jail for her gun charge since Jan. 18.

Her attorney Aaron Holt said he is planning a vigorous defense. He said he doesn’t believe Pierce
knew of the extent of Sturgis’ criminal record.

While neighbors referred to Sturgis as Pierce’s boyfriend, Sturgis had a wife and children in
Philadelphia.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Patriot-News Co. All Rights Reserved. Used with permission.

 