Deputy U.S. marshal who led Frein hunt is fatally - Pike County Courier,
The (Dingman-Milford, PA) - January 25, 2018
January 25, 2018 | Pike County Courier, The (Dingman-Milford, PA)

A deputy U.S. marshal who led the massive 2014 Poconos manhunt for trooper killer Eric Frein was
fatally shot in Philadelphia last Friday.

A gunman opened fire on law enforcement officers serving an arrest warrant inside a home before
dawn on Jan. 18, killing Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher David Hill before he was shot to death by
police as he fled outside, authorities said.

Hill, 45, an Army veteran who has been with the service more than a decade, died of a gunshot
wound to the chest, the county coroner said. Another member of the fugitive task force, York City
Police Officer Kyle Pitts, also was hit by gunfire, but his injuries were not considered life-
threatening.

U.S. Attorney Dave Freed said there are indications a third officer may have been struck in his body
armor but was not wounded.

U.S. Marshal Martin Pane said Hill belonged to an elite special operations group within the agency
and took a lead role in the fugitive Eric Frein in 2014. Frein was subsequently convicted and
sentenced to death for killing a state trooper.

"Chris is just one of those guys that rises to the top," Pane said. "Chris is the cream of the crop.
He's one of our best and . you would probably not find a better tactical operator in the state of
Pennsylvania."

"None of us has sufficient words to express our grief and sorrow," Freed said.

Police were on the first floor handcuffing the woman they were seeking to arrest when 31-year-old
Kevin Sturg is
Kevin Sturg is , of Philadelphia, began firing from the second floor, said Freed. Sturgis was fatally
shot as he later ran out the front door, again shooting at police, he said.

Sturgis had active warrants in Philadelphia for not showing up to be sentenced on a gun charge
and failing to appear at a probation violation hearing. Hill and Pitts were removed from the back of
the house during the confrontation after being shot.

Hill died at a hospital. He is survived by a wife and two children. He served with the U.S. Army in
Afghanistan before being hired by the marshal service in 2006.

In a statement issued from Washington, Attorney General Jeff Sessions described law
enforcement as heartbroken over Hill's death. He said the officer's name should be recalled as a
synonym for valor.

"Every day, deputy U.S. marshals make the people of this country safer by catching fugitives on the
run, protecting our courthouses, our judges and witnesses at trial," Sessions said. "T hey achieve
these critical accomplishments at often heroic risk."

Gov. T om Wolf ordered state flags to fly at half-staff in Hill's honor until his interment.

T he shooting occurred less than 2 miles (3 kilometers) from the state Capitol in a working class
neighborhood of duplexes, single-family homes and commercial buildings.

Related story:

"Frein captured, charged with murder": http://bit.ly/2BuPMP0

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Pike County Courier, The (Ding man-Milford, PA), All Rights Reserved.

 