Officer won't be charged in fatal shooting - - Philadelphia Inquirer, The
(PA) - October 10, 2018 - page B01
October 10, 2018 | Philadelphia Inquirer, The (PA) | Tommy Rowan STAFF WRITER | Page B01

A Philadelphia police officer will not face charges after fatally wounding a 59-year-old Germantown
homeowner in an August shootout that started when he mistook for intruders the officers who
came to his house at 6 a.m. to execute a search warrant, the District Attorney's Office said
T uesday.

T he office said a review of the shooting led to the conclusion that Officer Angel Vasquez had
"reasonably believed he was in danger of death or serious bodily injury."

Police Commissioner Richard Ross had called the Aug. 6 death of the homeowner, Ricardo
Ricardo
Gidding s , "an all-out absolute tragedy."
Gidding s

Members of the SWAT  team arrived at Giddings' house on the 4800 block of Knox Street with a
search warrant and hoped to question Giddings' grandson in an unrelated shooting. Authorities
said the officers knocked and announced themselves several times before entering the home, but
Giddings thought they were intruders and opened fire, hitting one officer, Jaison Potts, 49, in the
face.

Vasquez, Potts' partner, returned fire, hitting Giddings in the chest and a leg, wounds that proved
fatal. Giddings' 67-year-old wife, Joann, was hit in the stomach by a ricocheted shotgun pellet as
she tried to run out of the house. Her injuries were not life-threatening.

In a statement T uesday, the prosecutor's office said, "We have concluded that the officer
reasonably believed he was in danger of death or serious bodily injury. T he officer was, therefore,
legally justified in using deadly force, and, in this circumstance, no criminal charges are warranted."

SWAT  officers serve around 300 warrants a year and had not fired a shot since 2015, Ross said at
the time of the shooting. He called it "an absolute unfortunate circumstance all the way around."

T he announcement comes as Krasner's office has pledged to apply more scrutiny to police-
involved shootings.

Ben Waxman, District Attorney Larry Krasner's spokesperson, said Tuesday that the office
investigates any incident in which an officer discharges a weapon.

"And in this case, the facts were very clear that they were in a very difficult situation walking into a
house where they were being shot at," Waxman said of the officers.

Potts, a 20-year veteran of the police force, walked into Temple University Hospital shortly after
the shooting and underwent surgery to remove the bullet from his jaw.

T he grandson, whom police did not identify, was not at the house. He later turned himself in to
police.

John McNesby, president of Fraternal Order of Police Lodge 5, the officers' union, said T uesday
that he wasn't surprised that the officer wasn't charged.

"T hey were serving a search warrant, they were fired upon, and the officer returned fire. T he
officer was doing his job, so I don't know what there would be charges for," he said.
"Unfortunately, sometimes policing isn't pretty. It's unfortunate someone lost their life that day,
but the job was carried out. SWAT  has a job to do."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Philadelphia Inquirer

 