Family: Man got bad news hours before standoff - - Courier News (Elgin,
IL) - July 11, 2018 - page 1
July 11, 2018 | Courier News (Elgin, IL) | Janelle Walker | Page 1

T he man who shot and injured three law enforcement officers from the stairwell of a South Elgin
condo building last week was beset by health and money problems and driven to desperation by a
final phone call of bad financial news, his family said.

Frank Dripps
Frank Dripps , 52, was shot and killed by police on the Fourth of July, ending an hourslong standoff.
During the incident, Dripps hunkered down with a shotgun and a rifle and fired at officers multiple
times.

In an interview with T he Courier-News, Dripps' wife, sister and parents offered their apologies to
the injured officers. T hey said they don't want to make excuses for Dripps, but they also want to
explain what they believe prompted Dripps' actions that night.

"It pains us that there were officers injured," Dripps' sister Deborah Martin said from her parents'
living room in Batavia.

On July 3, hours before his death, Dripps learned his Social Security benefit was being eliminated,
said his wife, Paula Dripps. A letter addressed to Frank Dripps
monthly Supplemental Security Income would be reduced to $167.50 because of a change in his
family's income. Paula Dripps described that as an error by the Social Security Administration in
calculating her income.

Frank Dripps  dated May 28 said his $750

Frank Dripps  was told his benefit would be cut to zero. In addition,
In a phone call last week, Frank Dripps
Dripps was told he had been overpaid for several months and owed a repayment of $6,000 to
$7,000, his wife said. Dripps had received benefits after he was diagnosed with two diseases that
affected his spine and made it difficult to move and impossible to work, his family said.

"T hey said he was owed nothing and that we owed them," Paula Dripps said. "He was mad at the
government."

T he July 3 phone call - on top of his spinal problems that had sidelined his career as a home
construction contractor as well as depression and feeling "less" for not being able to care for his
wife - was the last straw, Dripps said.

T hat night, Dripps was returning home from work when Frank Dripps
condo roommate and said, "Will you take care of Paula?" Dripps then grabbed the shotgun and
rifle.

Frank Dripps  turned to the couple's

Officers responded to a report of shots fired at the condo at 10:50 p.m. In what his family called a
desperate, misguided attempt to end his life, Dripps fired at police officers as they arrived at the

300 block of Woodridge Circle. Police said at least two shotgun blasts were fired. No one was hit.

Officers did not fire back, but they did evacuate nearby residents. SWAT  teams from Elgin and
Kane County responded, as did officers from 11 area police agencies.

From the stairwell, Dripps yelled at police and threatened to shoot if they approached, officials said.

After nearly four tense hours, Dripps fired at authorities again around 2:30 a.m. and struck three
officers - one from Geneva police, one from Hanover Park police and one from the Kane County
sheriff's department. Authorities shot back, killing Dripps.

"He wanted to end things himself, but he couldn't bring himself to do it," Martin said of her brother.
"He wanted a way for someone else to relieve his pain for him."

T he injured officers were treated and released from the hospital later that day.

Dripps' family conveyed their concern for the injured and for the officer who fired the fatal shot.
"We feel for him," Martin said.

T he family is convinced the news of Dripps' Social Security benefits and debt had set him off, and
they believe he did not want to hurt anyone but himself. At the same time, they are troubled by his
actions during the standoff.

"T he last four hours ... didn't represent the last 10 years of his life," Martin said.

For the past 10 years, Dripps had struggled with spinal deterioration and was given a dual diagnosis
of diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis and ankylosing spondylitis.

Dripps at times had used a wheelchair, scooter, walker and sometimes a cane. A cane was with him
when he was shot.

Since moving to Illinois 13 months ago, Dripps found it difficult to find a health care provider who
would take on his case, his wife said. T here were numerous surgeries over the years - toes
amputated, surgery on both feet, replacement of his left shoulder and plans for a hip replacement.

"He was in constant pain, every day," Paula Dripps said.

Frank Dripps
Frank Dripps  had a criminal record in California, but detailed records were not available, and he
had put those problems behind him, his family said.

Despite those setbacks, Dripps' life took a turn for the better about 10 years ago when he married
Paula Dripps, family said. T he couple, who had been friends for 25 years before their courtship,
were involved in a California church, had recommitted their lives to Christ and were baptized
together, Paula Dripps said.

"He had turned his life around," Martin said. "He was such a changed person in the last 10 years
that makes the last four hours more difficult to understand."

Janelle Walker is a freelance reporter for the Courier-News.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Courier News. All rights reserved. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED.

 