3 law enforcement officers are injured in fatal - Daily Chronicle, The
(DeKalb, IL) - July 6, 2018
July 6, 2018 | Daily Chronicle, The (DeKalb, IL) | BRENDA SCHORY

SOUT H ELGIN – A Geneva police officer was one of three people wounded by gunfire in a fatal
standoff Wednesday with an armed man in South Elgin, police said.

After about four hours of trying to negotiate with him, a man identified as Frank Dripps
out onto the porch of his townhouse in the 300 block of Woodridge Circle in South Elgin and shot
at SWAT  team members who returned fire, killing him, South Elgin Sgt. Michael Doty said.

Frank Dripps , 52, came

"T hree officers were struck by some type of bullet or fragment of bullets," Doty said. "T he three
were transported to the hospital with non-life-threatening injuries."

T wo of the wounded officers were from the Kane County SWAT  team – a sheriff's deputy and a
Geneva officer who were part of the SWAT  team – and a Hanover Park officer who was assisting,
Kane County Sheriff's spokesman Lt. Pat Gengler said.

T he incident began at 10:50 p.m. Tuesday with residents of the 300 block of Woodridge Circle
reporting shots fired at a townhouse building. T he incident ended at 2:38 a.m. Wednesday, with the
suspect shooting at officers and then being fatally shot, Doty said.

When officers first arrived, Dripps fired at them from the first-floor townhouse where he lived,
Doty said.

"Officers immediately took cover and tried to negotiate with the suspect," Doty said. "After a
period of time, a supervisor called … mutual aid for police agencies. Also, the suspect was still
acting erratically and said if police came, he would shoot them."

Multiple police agencies from the area and SWAT  teams from Elgin and Kane County responded,
Doty said.

"After a period of about four hours of negotiating with the suspect, he exited onto his porch area
and started shooting at SWAT  team members," Doty said. "T hey returned fire and took the
suspect out. … T he suspect was shot at 2:38 a.m."

Dripps had a shotgun and a rifle, Doty said.

Doty could not say how many rounds were fired because that still is under investigation.

T he Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force Officer Involved Shooting Team is investigating the
incident, Doty said.

"T he investigation is ongoing, with police speaking with witnesses," Doty said. "Officers will take
time to sort it out."

Gengler said the county's SWAT  officer was treated and released from the hospital.

In an email, Geneva Cmdr. Julie Nash said the injured Geneva officer was treated and released from
the hospital.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Daily Chronicle, Shaw Newspapers. All Rights Reserved.

 