Surveillance footage released showing fatal St. - St. Louis Post-Dispatch
(MO) - December 22, 2018 - page A4
December 22, 2018 | St. Louis Post-Dispatch (MO) | Christine Byers St. Louis Post-Dispatch | Page A4

ST . LOUIS • Thirteen seconds.

T hat’s how long it took for what started as a St. Louis police officer’s approaching a stolen car to
escalate to a fatal shooting by police, according to surveillance footage the department released
Friday afternoon.

T he two-minute video of the Dec. 12 shooting was captured by surveillance cameras at the BP gas
station at Goodfellow Boulevard and Lillian Avenue.

T he video begins with a summary of the encounter, saying officers “observed a stolen vehicle while
on patrol.” T he video highlights the police vehicle as it parks in front of a stolen 2004 Hyundai
Santa Fe, which was at a gas pump.

T he video shows an officer approaching the SUV and opening the driver’s side door. T he Hyundai
suddenly reverses, spins around on the parking lot with the officer inside the driver’s side, and
strikes another gas pump. T he officer falls to the ground with his weapon drawn.

T he Hyundai’s driver, Demario B ass
31, with about two years on the force, suffered “significant” head injuries while he was pinned
between the open door and the body of the stolen SUV, according to Chief John Hayden.

Demario B ass , 29, died from a gunshot wound to the chest. T he officer,

“As the Chief stated, we believe the officer discharged his weapon some time between confronting
the suspect at the driver-door of the suspect vehicle and when the vehicle was involved in the
accident,” said a statement by the police department.

T he police department also included a slowed-down version of the encounter.

T he video also shows officers rendering aid to Bass while waiting for paramedics.

Police found drugs in the SUV but did not find a gun, the press statement says. T he vehicle had
been stolen two days before the encounter.

T he officer has been released from the hospital and is recovering at home, according to the
release.

T he fatal shooting is the only one so far this year by St. Louis police officers. Last year, there were
at least eight.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 St. Louis Post-Dispatch

 