Mother accuses Danville police of shooting man - San Francisco
Chronicle (CA) - November 20, 2018 - page C1
November 20, 2018 | San Francisco Chronicle (CA) | Michael Cabanatuan | Page C1

T he mother of a man shot to death behind the wheel of his car by Danville police has filed a claim
against the city that alleges "his only crime was being the wrong skin color in Danville."

Attorney John Burris made that statement in a claim his office filed Friday with the Danville city
attorney's office. T he claim, which California requires to be filed and denied before a lawsuit can be
filed against a government agency, seeks in excess of $25,000; it was filed on behalf of Jeannie
Laudemer Arboleda .
Atienza, the mother of Laudemer Arboleda

Arboleda, 33, of Newark was shot to death Nov. 3 in the affluent East Bay suburb by Danville police
officer Andrew Hall, a five-year veteran of the force. Authorities said Hall feared that Arboleda was
trying to run him down in an escape attempt.

T he shooting has raised questions about the controversial practice of police firing on moving
vehicles. Such tactics are banned in many cities, including San Francisco.

Police said they received a call about 11 a.m. of someone acting suspiciously and walking toward
several homes with bags in his hands. When officers approached Arboleda, police said, he fled in his
silver Honda sedan. He pulled over twice, authorities said, as if to surrender, before driving away.
But at Front Street and Diablo Road, Arboleda allegedly veered toward officers approaching his car
on foot.

Burris released a statement saying Arboleda had not committed a crime or an infraction, and the
attorney said a witness has come forward to contradict the Police Department's account of the
incident. Arboleda was trying to drive slowly around a police cruiser and not attempting to strike
Hall, Burris said.

Hall "recklessly decided to deprive Mr. Arboleda of his life when he had no information that he had
committed any crime," Burris said. "T he officer had an option but chose death over life."

Contra Costa County Sheriff David Livingston released a statement slamming Burris for playing the
"race card" and called Arboleda "dangerous and reckless."

"T his is a tragic case, yet once again John Burris is reaching for his well-worn race card. T his is not
about race. T his is about a dangerous and reckless person trying to run down and murder a police
officer. Once all investigations are completed, we look forward to sharing the full details with the
public," Livingston said.

Burris said the lack of a ban on shooting at moving cars runs contrary to "recommended police
practices" and Department of Justice guidelines.

T he claim alleges wrongful death, negligence and negligent hiring and training. It seeks an
unspecified amount of money for general damages, including pain, suffering and emotional
distress, as well as medical and related expenses.

“T his is not about race. T his is about a dangerous and reckless person trying to run down and
murder a police officer.

David Livingston, Contra Costa County sheriff

David Livingston, Contra Costa County sheriff

(c) San Francisco Chronicle 2018

 