PAWTUCKET - A 28-year-old Pawtucket man was killed - Providence
Journal (RI) - September 8, 2018 - page A7
September 8, 2018 | Providence Journal (RI) | Brian Amaral, Katie Mulvaney and Kevin G. Andrade Journal Staff
Writers | Article | Page A7

PAWT UCKET  - A 28-year-old Pawtucket man was killed Friday morning in what city officials
described as an "officer-involved shooting."

Pawtucket Police Chief Tina Goncalves, speaking at a news conference Friday afternoon, said
officers received a call at about 6:15 a.m. reporting a man with a gun.

She said three officers confronted DaShawn Cole
gun - although she did not say whether he fired the weapon.

DaShawn Cole, who she said then assaulted the officers with a

T he three officers, whom Goncalves did not name, are on administrative leave as the case is
investigated. No officer was hurt, she said.

A section of Newport Avenue less than a half mile south of the Attleboro border was closed for
much of the day.

Outside the news conference, members of Cole's family gathered and expressed disbelief at the
death of DaShawn.

His sister, Courtney Hooker, said that Cole was an "amazing person" and a loving uncle to her
children.

His adoptive mother, Linda Allen, said that Cole, a Pawtucket resident and landscaper, loved fishing,
and that he would never hurt anyone.

"No police called or told me anything," she said. "I'm finding all this out on the street."

Cole's brother, Darvon, said that he was confused and wanted answers.

"I don't know anything about what's happening now," he said. "I asked the cop specifically, 'Did he
[DaShawn] let off first?' and he said, 'Yes.'"

"I just want to know how many times he got shot," he said, adding that a detective told him over
the phone that DaShawn was shot eight times, though police declined to comment on the matter.
"I don't know anything right now. If he did get all those shots, I want to know why."

Darvon Cole also said Rhode Island Hospital did not allow the family to identify DaShawn's body
after Pawtucket police asked them to do so.

"HIPPA confidentiality laws prevent Rhode Island Hospital from discussing the case," a Lifespan
spokesman said. "Based on your [the Journal's] description of the case, the hospital would certainly
not deny a family's request to see a loved one unless specifically requested by police in an active
investigation."

DaShawn Cole had been arrested four times in Massachusetts on gun possession charges,
DaShawn Cole
according to the Suffolk County district attorney's office. T he latest was in January 2009, when he
was caught in Roxbury with a handgun, a .357 Magnum. He pleaded guilty to unlawful possession
of a firearm in December 2009 and was sentenced to four years in state prison, according to the
district attorney's office.

T his is the third officer-involved shooting - and the first fatal one - this year in Rhode Island.

Woonsocket officers shot and wounded Tyler Chandler, 22, when he fired at them on July 2. A
T iverton police lieutenant shot and wounded Scott Banville, 44, after he allegedly pointed a .50-
caliber muzzleloader at officers responding to a call about domestic violence on April 4.

Both shootings were determined to be justified following investigations.

T he last time the Pawtucket police were involved in a shooting was March 24, 2016, when Officer
Julianne Borsari fatally shot 24-year-old Dominique Silva. Borsari had been responding to a call
about a man with a gun when she came upon Silva, who pointed a weapon at her. Borsari fired and
killed Silva, who turned out to have been holding a realistic-looking BB gun.

A Providence County grand jury determined the shooting of Silva was lawful and legally justified.

For several hours on Friday, police closed busy Newport Avenue near the Benefit Street
intersection as they pored over the scene, taking photographs and placing yellow evidence
markers outside a two-story brown house at the corner of Newport and Slade streets.

Investigators also examined the side of a home behind the Newport Avenue house, on the
opposite side from the scattered evidence markers.

Several police cruisers were on Newport Avenue with their lights flashing; some had been there all
morning, and an investigator took care to take photographs inside of one of them.

Some homes in the area, located in the Darlington section of the city, were within a block-wide
police cordon. Residents had to be escorted by police through yellow crime-scene tape to get
coffee at a nearby Dunkin' Donuts or walk their dogs.

Also at the scene were members of the state police and the attorney general's office, agencies
that typically investigate police-involved shootings. A large state police crime-scene truck was
there, as was Deputy Attorney General Gerald Coyne.

Witnesses said they heard several gunshots early Friday morning.

-With reports from staff writer Amanda Milkovits

Copyrig ht © 2018 Providence Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 