Man shot, killed by police - 28-year-old man - Times, The (Pawtucket, RI)
- September 8, 2018 - page A1
September 8, 2018 | Times, The (Pawtucket, RI) | JONATHAN BISSONNETTE
jbissonnette@pawtuckettimes.com | Page A1

PAWT UCKET  – Mary Surkont was asleep in her Slade Street home just prior to dawn on Friday
when she was startled awake by a noise foreign to her.

“It was like a ‘ping-ping,’” Surkont said Friday afternoon. “I thought it was someone hitting an
aluminum pipe. But then I heard ‘ping-ping-ping’ again and I thought ‘Oh my god, that sounds like
gunshots.’ I thought ‘No, it couldn’t be. Not on this street.’”

According to Pawtucket Police Chief Tina Goncalves, Pawtucket Police received a call around 6:15
Friday morning for a man with a firearm on or near Cottage Street. Several officers responded to
the scene and a responding officer noticed a man matching the description on Newport Avenue. A
confrontation ensued between police and the man, identified as 28-year-old DaShawn Cole
DaShawn Cole, and
the result was a “felony assault on an officer” with a firearm located on scene, Goncalves said.

Goncalves would not say whether Cole fired any shots at the officers, saying the investigation was
ongoing. She could not say whether or not there was any video footage of the incident, saying that
it was under investigation.

She said that the initial call was for a man with a firearm, as one was allegedly noticed in Cole’s
waistband.

As a result of the confrontation and felony assault, Goncalves said, an officer-involved shooting
occurred in which three patrol officers were involved. Goncalves did not say whether all three
officers fired shots or how many shots were fired,

but said Cole was struck by gunfire and transported to Rhode Island Hospital after CPR was
performed on scene. He was pronounced dead at the hospital on Friday.

Goncalves said she believed this was an isolated incident. T he scene at Slade Street and Newport
Avenue was cleared and Newport Avenue was opened to traffic after being closed for several
hours Friday morning and early afternoon. While officials said the incident appeared isolated, a
“strong police presence” will be maintained in the area.

T he three officers were on administrative leave and their names will be made public soon, city
officials said. Goncalves during a press conference at City Hall on Friday afternoon declined to
name the officers, noting “we’ve checked in on the officers. Obviously, it’s a tragedy.”

None of the officers involved in Friday’s shooting were injured, Public Safety Director James
Vartanian said. Pawtucket Police are working with Rhode Island State Police and the Attorney

General’s Office on the officer-involved shooting.

Friday morning’s shooting, and any sort of gunfire in general, came as a shock to Surkont, who
said nothing like that had ever occurred in her 10 years of living on Slade Street.

“I saw my neighbor say there were bullet holes in her door and hall. I saw an EMT  give the guy CPR
before he was taken away,” Surkont recalled of what she witnessed just after sunrise Friday. “It was
crazy. My tenant upstairs said she came from the other side (of Pawtucket) and was used to it, but
not here.”

“It’s an isolated incident, but everyone’s shook up,” Surkont said.

Friday’s shooting was the second fatal officer-involved shooting in Pawtucket since 2016. On
March 24 of that year, local resident Dominique Silva was shot and killed by Pawtucket Police
Officer Julianne Borsari.

On that day, Pawtucket Police responded to the area of Kenyon Avenue to investigate a robbery.
According to police logs, a caller had been threatened by a dark-skinned man with braids who had a
.38 revolver.

Witnesses who identified Silva as being involved pointed Borsari in his direction, according to police.
When Borsari – who was in uniform in a marked police vehicle – approached, Silva pointed what
appeared to be a handgun at her and fled on foot. T he weapon was later determined to be a BB
gun that resembled a real handgun.

Borsari chased after Silva, ordering him to stop and drop his weapon, police said. Silva again
pointed the weapon at Borsari, who shot Silva.

Jonathan Bissonnette on T witter @J_Bissonnette

Copyrig ht 2018, The Times, All Rights Reserved

 