Pawtucket police release details in shooting - Valley Breeze, The:
Pawtucket Edition (RI) - September 12, 2018
September 12, 2018 | Valley Breeze, The: Pawtucket Edition (RI) | ETHAN SHOREY

DaShawn Cole,
PAWT UCKET  – Police this week offered more details in the case of a local man, DaShawn Cole
who was killed by police in a shooting early last Friday morning, including the name of the police
officer who shot him.

Last Friday, Sept. 7, around 6:30 a.m., officers responded to a 911 call for a man with a gun in the
area of Cottage Street. T he first responding officer, Ana Vertentes, found a man who matched the
description on Newport Avenue, said police in a news release late Monday afternoon. When she
attempted to make contact with Cole, who had a gun, “he immediately attacked her,” said police in
the release.

“A violent struggle ensued between Officer Vertentes and Cole, resulting in her discharging her
firearm,” states the release. “During the struggle, backup Officers William Briggs and Dianne
Rittman-McLaughlin responded. While still armed with the firearm, Cole confronts the two officers,
resulting in Officers Rittman-McLaughlin and Briggs discharging their firearms.”

Several officers on scene attempted life-saving measures including CPR on Cole until rescue
personnel arrived, according to police. Cole was later pronounced dead at Rhode Island Hospital.
T he investigation is ongoing, and the Pawtucket Police Department is working with the Rhode
Island State Police and the Rhode Island Attorney General’s Office throughout the investigation.

Vertentes was hired in July of 2016 and Rittman-McLaughlin and Briggs were hired in March of
2010.

Earlier on Monday, the Rhode Island ACLU put out a statement questioning why more details
hadn’t been disclosed to that point, also pointing out that half of the state’s police-involved
shootings since 2006 have occurred in Pawtucket.

Public Safety Director Jim Vartanian responded to the ACLU’s assertions with a statement Monday
afternoon saying officials appreciate the ACLU’s role in preserving rights, adding that more
information would be forthcoming.

“Please rest assured that more information regarding the shooting will be forthcoming, and that it
will be as transparent as possible as the investigation continues and ultimately comes to
conclusion,” he said.

In his release Monday, ACLU Executive Director Steven Brown said that “very basic information”
about the incident remained undisclosed.

Brown contrasted “the belated sharing of information by police during officer-involved shootings

and the much more free-flowing disclosure of information when serious civilian-upon-civilian
crimes occur,” saying it is “striking and totally unacceptable. In fact, similar secrecy disconcertingly
shrouded the last fatal police shooting in Pawtucket in 2016.”

According to published accounts, there have been 14 incidents of deadly police shootings in Rhode
Island since 2006. Of those 14 deaths, seven of them, have been at the hands of Pawtucket police,
“a truly alarming figure,” said Brown.

Of the city’s 10 officer-involved shootings since 2003, seven have been fatal. All previous ones
were ruled justified.

“While this figure is disturbing, we want to emphasize that we make no judgment on the actions
police took on Friday,” said Brown. “Indeed, we don’t have enough information for that. However, it
cannot be denied that Pawtucket police are far more likely to use deadly force than other police
departments.”

T he ACLU recognizes the dangers police face daily, and that every police shooting must be
evaluated on its own merits and in recognition of the split-second decisions that officers must
often make, added Brown, but Pawtucket’s numbers warrant both internal and external
investigations, as well as a review of the police department’s training and practices to determine
“the causes behind this disconcerting track record.”

“Just as importantly, we call on all police departments to be more forthcoming with basic
information about police shootings when they occur, rather than shrouding them in secrecy for
lengthy periods of time,” he said.

In an afternoon press conference last Friday, police announced that the person who died in an
officer-involved shooting that morning, Cole, 28, was carrying a firearm and allegedly committed a
felony assault of an officer prior to the shooting.

T he shooting took place around 6:30 a.m. in the area of Newport Avenue and Benefit Street. No
officers were hurt, according to Chief of Police Tina Goncalves. T he three patrol officers who
confronted Cole and were involved in the incident were placed on administrative leave, she said.

T he chief said more than a dozen times during a five-minute press conference that she wouldn’t
be commenting further and the matter was still under investigation.

Copyrig ht 2018 Breeze Publications, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

 