Authorities look for link between Illinois - Meadville Tribune, The (PA) -
July 26, 2018
July 26, 2018 | Meadville Tribune, The (PA) | Meadville Tribune

Authorities in Illinois and Pennsylvania are trying to determine if a man killed by police in Illinois this
morning is the Cochranton man wanted for the murder of an elderly Springboro area man.

Chris Covelli, a spokesman for the Lake County (Illinois) Major Crimes T ask Force, confirmed to the
T ribune that there was a fatal shooting by police just after 5 a.m. Central Daylight Time in
Lakemoor, Ill., about 50 miles northwest of Chicago.

Covelli said the man killed was driving a vehicle with Pennsylvania plates.

Covelli confirmed authorities in Lake County are working with Pennsylvania State Police to
determine the man's identity and if there's any connection with the recent northwest Pennsylvania
homicide.

Kenneth Edwin M artell
Kenneth Edwin M artell, 36, of Cochranton is wanted by Pennsylvania State Police for the killing
T heodore M. Garver, 88, of 2443 Parker Road, Springboro area, during a robbery at Garver's
home on Monday. Martell was driving a Kia Sorento with a Pennsylvania license plate, according to
state police.

Covelli said a female Lakemoor Police Department officer observed a suspicious SUV backed into a
gravel area, on the west side of Four Seasons Boulevard. T he officer exited her squad car to check
on the vehicle and adult male occupant.

Covelli said that while the officer was speaking to the man, he produced a handgun and a struggle
ensued.

During the struggle, a second Lakemoor officer arrived at the scene. As he approached, he
observed the man was in possession of a second handgun. At least one of the two Lakemoor
Officers fired at the man. T he man was struck and subsequently pronounced deceased at the
scene.

Both officers were transported to a local hospital for evaluation, Covelli said.

T he Lake County Major Crime T ask Force currently is investigating the incident. T he Lake County
Coroner's Office responded to the scene and an autopsy is scheduled for this afternoon.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Meadville Tribune / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 