4th shooting by local officers in 9 months - Walton Tribune, The
(Monroe, GA) - March 2, 2019
March 2, 2019 | Walton Tribune, The (Monroe, GA) | David Clemons | Walton Tribune

T he Walton County sheriff's deputy who fired his service weapon at a man he said pulled a gun on
him while running away in Loganville on Tuesday became just the latest law enforcement officer to
have to make a split-second decision that could claim a life — or cost his own.

Four times in the past nine months, a law enforcement officer in Walton County has shot a suspect
when they believed a life was in danger. In three of those cases, the person died.

T he first occurred June 12 at a home in the 3700 block of Lovers Lane in unincorporated Monroe. A
sheriff's deputy fatally shot 26-year-old Chavius Hollis, who reportedly raised his weapon and shot
at a family member just before being shot by the deputy, who was called out to a domestic
disturbance.

William Earnest B rooks , 43, was killed July 26 when he reportedly showed a weapon to officers
William Earnest B rooks
from multiple agencies during a foot chase near the Hard Labor Creek Reservoir.

Mahlon Edward Summerour, 63, was killed Oct. 18 when Monroe police officers responded to 911
calls of a man carrying a gun on East Marable Street. He pointed the object — which later turned
out to be a replica Thompson machine gun — at the officers, and one fired his service weapon,
fatally striking him in the chest.

T he Loganville shooting was the third involving a law enforcement officer in Georgia on T uesday.

A state trooper stopped a car on Interstate 95 in McIntosh County. T he driver, 20-year-old Sasha
Ann Pishko, of Clermont, Florida, struck the trooper with her car. T he trooper shot at the car, killing
Pishko.

T he GBI also responded Tuesday afternoon to a shooting involving a police officer in southwest
Atlanta.

Willie Banks, 34, of Atlanta, was shot when the car he was driving — reportedly stolen — crashed
after a police chase.

A Cherokee County man was shot by Smyrna police Thursday when he didn't comply with officers'
orders to drop the gun he was holding in the parking lot of an office complex. Gary Fink, 68,
sustained non-life-threatening injuries.4

Copyrig ht, 2019, The Walton Tribune

 