
 
A fatal officer-involved shooting was reported in Hardwick on Tuesday night. This was the second trooper-related

fatal shooting in the small rural Warren County township in a span of six days. 

The Attorney General's Shooting Response Team is investigating both. 

Stephen Cogelia, 32, was fatally shot by a State Trooper at his family home, according to a report from the attorney

general's office. Cogelia, according to the report, was armed with a hunting knife and had threatened family

members. 

Six days earlier, a New York man led troopers on a chase from the Delaware Water Gap to a secluded area of the

sparsely populated North Jersey township, where he died after an exchange of gunfire. Attorney general's office

spokesman Peter Aseltine said the office has "no information to suggest that these shootings are connected in

any way." He declined to give any information on the troopers involved. 

New Jersey State Police referred all questions to the attorney general. 

State troopers patrol the township with a population 1,696 as of the 2010 U.S. Census. It includes portions of

Worthington State Forest and does not have its own police force. 

The second shooting occurred shortly after 9 p.m. Tuesday at a home on Sunset Lake Road. According to the

preliminary attorney general's office investigation, Cogelia threatened to kill his father who had asked him to leave

the home. He also threatened to kill others in the home, according to reports. 

Cogelia's father reported the threats in person to the state police station in Hope and asked for a temporary

restraining order. While at the station, a relative called the father to report Cogelia had returned to the home and

was making additional threats. 

violence against them. 

Five troopers responded, and according to the attorney general's office, when they entered, Cogelia threatened

Troopers encountered Cegelia, who was armed with a knife, in a second floor bedroom, reports show. One trooper

The attorney general's Independent Prosecutor Directive establishes strict procedures for conducting all deadly-

fired his service weapon, struck and killed Cogelia, according to the report. 

Cogelia was pronounced dead at the scene. No troopers were injured. 

Aseltine said no additional information would be released at this time. 

force investigations. Both incidents are currently under investigation. 
 
 
