
 
MARSHALL - A Michigan State Police detective remains in the hospital after he was shot in rural Branch County on

Wednesday. 

Detective Sgt. Aaron Steensma, assigned to the Coldwater detachment, was shot in the shoulder and remains

heavily sedated, according to Lt. James Coleman, Marshall post commander. 

A bullet shattered his clavicle and a couple of ribs, Coleman said. He also suffered trauma to his lung and possible

nerve damage and remains in serious condition. 

"He is out of the woods as far as life threatening but we are not sure what the lasting effects from the injuries will

occur," Coleman said. "They are going to keep him asleep three or four days." 

Trooper Daniel Thayer was treated for an injury to the tip of a finger, Coleman said. 

Both officers were shot when they and four others —a sergeant, detective and two other troopers —went to the

home of 62-year-old David Kidney at 595 Francisco Road off of Arbogast Road in Branch County's Union Township. 

Coleman said the officers were serving a search warrant as part of an investigation of the March 12, 2009,

homicide of Duane Finney. 

Finney was found shot and killed in his car on North Angola Road in Coldwater. 

Coleman said the investigators had a tip that Kidney might be involved in the homicide and had talked with him a

few days earlier. 

They returned Wednesday with the search warrant seeking DNA from Kidney because they had collected both DNA

and a 9 mm bullet at the scene of the shooting and knew Kidney had a 9 mm handgun. 

"About 10 a.m. they made contact," Coleman said. "They knocked on the door and he opened the door. They were

trying to talk their way in and at some point when they were talking he grabbed a shotgun and leveled it at them." 

The troopers retreated and took some cover and spent more than an hour waiting after calling for the department's

Emergency Support (SWAT) Team. 

out shooting," Coleman said. 

"And hour goes by and they are still on the perimeter and he comes out of the house with a long gun and he comes

Troopers said Kidney was armed with a .223 caliber Mini 14 semi-automatic rifle and a 9 mm handgun. He was

firing the rifle but investigators are not sure if he fired the handgun. 

The shooting was about 11:20 a.m. and Steensma was wounded. Shots were fired for five or six seconds and

Kidney then went back into a treeline between the house and a corn field. 

Troopers were eventually able to put Steensma in a patrol car and take him to ProMedica Coldwater Regional

Hospital where he was then flown by West Michigan Air Care to Borgess Medical Center in Kalamazoo. 

As they were moving Steensma, Coleman said Kidney began firing again from the trees and was shot and killed by

one of the troopers. An autopsy determined he was shot once. 

Coleman said investigators are still trying to determine how many times each of the officers were hit but that

Thayer was struck in the chest and protected by his body armor while Steensma was hit above his vest. 

Investigators from the Sixth District, headquartered in Rockford, are compiling a report on the shooting. Thayer is

on administrative leave, a routine practice after a shooting. 

Coleman said investigators will try to determine if Kidney was involved in the Finney homicide. 

Contact Trace Christenson at 269-966-0685 or tchrist@battlecreekenquirer.com. Follow him on Twitter:

@TSChristenson 
 
 
