Victim's widow: Suspect's shoot-out death with MSP - Coldwater Daily
Reporter (MI) - January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | Coldwater Daily Reporter (MI) | Don Reid

COLDWAT ER — "Duane did not get justice," Crystal Finney said of her husband, Duane Finney, who
was murdered on May 12, 2009. "Justice is what is important, not closure."

Her statement comes a day after David Byron Kidney
troopers as they served a search warrant on him at his home at 595 Francisco Road, just east of
Arbogast Road in Union City. Kidney was found dead in a fence row on the property he rented. An
autopsy was conducted on Kidney Thursday morning in Grand Rapids.

David Byron Kidney, 62, shot two Michigan State Police

MSP released a statement saying, "T he preliminary results show Kidney's cause of death to be a
single gunshot wound that was sustained while exchanging gunfire with troopers."

On T hursday, MSP reported that officers were attempting to take cover when MSP Det./ Sgt.
Aaron Steensma was shot in the chest and MSP T pr. Daniel T hayer was shot in the chest and
hand.

T he round that struck T hayer in the chest was stopped by his ballistic vest. T he round that hit
Steensma struck him just above his solid vest at the collar bone.

Steensma remains in serious but stable condition at Borgess Medical Center in Kalamazoo
following surgery.

All MSP personnel were wearing body armor at the time of the incident.

"No further details are available for release at this time, as the investigation is still ongoing," MSP
officials stated.

Steensma, along with MSP Det./Sgt Heather Lass, were lead investigators in the cold case murder
of Finney. A search warrant was issued this week for DNA and a gun owned by Kidney.

When she was made aware of reports of the shooting on Wednesday, Crystal Finney said, "I knew
it was David. I knew he had moved out there."

Kidney had lived with his wife, Pamela, 860 E. Garfield Ave., Lot 16, next door to the Finneys.

Finney said that until the murder, the families had not communicated much, although she added
that Kidney blamed the Finneys after the landlord cut down a tree limb between trailers.

Finney also said Kidney was upset because they had called police on Kidney's grandchildren.

Finney said she had no idea why anyone would have wanted to kill Duane.

T he body of 62-yearold Duane Finney was found in the driver's seat of his2006 white Pontiac
Grand Prix in a field south of the Skate Ranch on South Angola Road in Coldwater. T here was a
bullet hole visible in the window, but it appeared the shot had come from inside the car, from the
back seat.

Duane had left for work as usual around 4:30 a.m. that Tuesday in 2009. Around 7:30 a.m., his
body was discovered after a resident near the Skate Ranch called 911 to report the suspicious
white car in the field half a mile west of the Finney family trailer off Garfield Road. T he southbound
car appeared to have swerved from the northbound lane, jump a small curb, then make a "S"
shaped path 500 feet across the field.

T he Grand Prix crossed a ditch and came to rest next to a marshy area.

During the investigation, it was noted that the location would not have been on his usual route to
work in Litchfield.

None of the fingerprints found in the car were conclusive. Some DNA evidence was collected from
the scene, but did not match any in data bases.

Kidney had only one prior criminal conviction. In 1994, a Branch County Circuit Court jury found him
guilty of receiving stolen property. Charges of breaking and entering were dismissed, and charges
against his wife were dropped.

T he conviction came before Michigan began collecting DNA of convicted felons, so Finney had
none on record.

Crystal Finney said she does not know what led the investigators to obtain the search warrant.

"T here are many things they just don't, just can't tell me," she said, adding that she has kept in
close contact with the officers since the cold case investigation began in March 2017.

She said that she and Branch County Sheriff's Office Det./Sgt. Dan Nichols talk on a monthly basis.
Nichols was the original investigator in the case.

Kidney had lived at the trailer park on Garfield Road until he divorced his wife in 2014 and moved to
Union T ownship. Pamela Kidney died on Dec. 4, 2017.

T he couple's daughter, Pamela Kidney Hoard Hankins, died one month earlier.

Copyrig ht 2018 Coldwater Daily Reporter. All Rights Reserved.

 