Family of wounded detective thanks community for - Kalamazoo
Gazette (MI) - January 28, 2018 - page A5
January 28, 2018 | Kalamazoo Gazette (MI) | Al Jones ajones5@mlive.com | Page A5

T he family of a Michigan State Police detective who was shot in the line of duty Wednesday said
they have received a lot of support from the community, and they are grateful.

In a statement, they said the officer, Detective Sgt. Aaron Steensma, loves his job, and they
appreciate the community’s response to what was a “horrible” shooting incident.

“We would like to start off by saying ‘T hank you’ to everyone for your outpouring of support, not
only from the Michigan State Police but also from surrounding police, fire and EMS agencies, as
well as friends and surrounding communities,” the family said. T heir written statement was
released Thursday by state police.

“We would like to give a special thanks to the personnel who helped take care of Aaron on the
scene and help get him to safety, as well as all of the medical personnel who have provided
excellent treatment and care for Aaron in his time of need.”

Steensma and Trooper Daniel T hayer were shot as they attempted to serve a search warrant
Wednesday at a house on Francisco Road just south of Union City.

T he owner of the house, identified as David Kidney
knocked at his door, police said. Kidney apparently died as a result of a wound he suffered during
the exchange of gunfire. He was found in a field south of the residence.

David Kidney, 62, produced a rifle after the officers

Here is the remainder of the Steensma family’s statement:

“Aaron is a family-oriented guy and very involved in the community. He loves being involved with
his children at their sporting events, and he will be greatly missed while he continues to recover
from this horrifying incident. It’s something we knew could happen at any time, but there is no way
to prepare yourself for it when it does occur. He loves his job, and we are all very proud of his
accomplishments while working with the Michigan State Police. Please continue to keep Aaron and
our family in your thoughts and prayers, as well as all of the emergency responders out protecting
and serving.”

Friends of the family at the state police have arranged for donations to be made online. T hose
interested in making a contribution may do so at mspta.net/mstaf/donations.

T hose wanting to donate are asked to put “Detective Sgt. Aaron Steensma” in the in
memory/honor and support of box.

Checks can be mailed to: 1715 Abbey Road, Suite B, East Lansing, MI 48823.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Kalamazoo Gazette, All Rights Reserved.

 