Wounded officer remains in ICU - Sturgis Journal (MI) - January 27, 2018 -
page A3
January 27, 2018 | Sturgis Journal (MI) | Corky Emrick | Page A3

A Michigan State Police officer who was shot Wednesday remains hospitalized and is in serious, but
stable, condition.

Det./Sgt. Aaron Steensma is in the intensive care unit at Borgess Medical Center in Kalamazoo, but
is improving, said Lt. James Coleman, commander at the state police post in Marshall.

"He is able to communicate with people," Coleman said.

Steensma and trooper Dan T hayer were shot Wednesday by 62-yearold David Kidney
executed a search warrant at a home on Francisco Road in Branch County.

David Kidney as they

Officers were investigating the 2009 cold case murder of Duane Finney.

T hey had obtained a search warrant to collect a DNA sample from Kidney and to search the home.
T hey were looking for a 9-mm handgun.

T roopers contacted Kidney about 10 a.m., Coleman said. Kidney pointed a shotgun at the officers
as they were talking to him.

T he officers took cover, set up a perimeter and the state police emergency support team was
called in to assist. Before the team arrived, Kidney exited the home and began firing at police with a
semi-automatic rifle. He also had a handgun.

Kidney circled the outside of the home, headed for a shed, then shot Steensma. He hid in a
wooded tree line, police said.

As troopers were getting Steensma to safety, placing him in a police vehicle, Kidney opened fire
again, striking T hayer in the chest and hand.

T roopers returned fire, killing Kidney.

An autopsy revealed Kidney was shot once.

Steensma was taken to a Coldwater hospital by police vehicle, then airlifted to Kalamazoo.

Coleman said Steensma has a shattered clavicle, two broken ribs, a lung injury and some nerve
damage.

T hayer was treated and released. Shots that struck him were deflected by body armor.

"T hat plate in the vest saved Dan's life," Coleman said.

Steensma was struck above his vest.

Investigation into the Finney homicide continues, Coleman said.

Copyrig ht 2018 Sturg is Journal. All Rights Reserved.

 