Cold case closed: Police say Kidney was killer - - Sturgis Journal (MI) -
April 12, 2019 - page 4
April 12, 2019 | Sturgis Journal (MI) | Don Reid | Page 4

At this point, investigators are highly confident David Kidney

David Kidney murdered Duane Finney.

T hat was the statement Wednesday from Fifth District Det/Lt. Chuck Christensen at a news
conference in Marshall.

Michigan State Police and the Branch County sheriff have ended the cold case investigation into
the May 12, 2009, murder. T he case was reopened two years ago.

T he conclusion came after Kidney, then 61, died in a shoot out with troopers at his Francisco Road
home on Jan. 24, 2017.

As troopers moved to enter the house, Kidney came out firing. Two troopers were shot and
rushed to the hospital. T here was a stand-off until it was determined Kidney was dead behind a row
of trees away from the house.

A Beretta 9mm Luger handgun was taken from a holster on Kidney's body, authorities said. T he
MSP laboratory matched the bullets and casings found at Finney's murder scene to that gun.

Kidney was only one person of interest, Christensen said, "but the others had been eliminated."

During a September 2017 interview, Kidney was cordial and cooperative with lead investigators
Det/Sgt. Heather Lass and Det/Sgt. Aaron Steensma. He said in May 2009, he owned assorted
guns, including a Beretta 9mm handgun.

T wo days after this meeting, Kidney contacted Steensma and told him he was unable to locate two
of his weapons, a

.22-caliber long gun and 9mm handgun.

Kidney then refused to answer calls from troopers. T hat prompted investigators in January to
request a search warrant for the gun and his DNA.

Kidney had one criminal conviction. A Branch County Circuit Court jury found him guilty in 1994 of
receiving stolen property. T he conviction came before Michigan began collecting DNA of convicted
felons, so he had none on record.

Christensen said there was animosity between the former neighbors.

Kidney had lived with his wife, Pamela, at 860 E. Garfield Ave., lot 16, next door to the Finneys.

Finney's widow, Crystal, said in 2017, Kidney blamed them after the landlord cut down a tree limb
between trailers. Crystal Finney said Kidney was upset because they had called police on Kidney's
grandkids for kicking a soccer ball into the trailer.

Christensen said he believed Kidney waited in Finney's car for him to go to work that morning in
2009.

T he body of 62-year old Finney was found in the driver's seat of his car in a field south of Skate
Ranch on South Angola Road. T here was a bullet hole visible in the window. It appeared the shot
had come from inside the car from the back seat.

Finney had left for work around 4:30 a.m. Around 7:30 a.m., his body was discovered after a
resident near Skate Ranch called 911 to report the suspicious white car in the field.

Christensen said cold cases are important.

"You have a murderer out there. If they did it once, they could do it again," he said. "You don't want
them out there."

T he case also was important to Christensen because of the two troopers shot. He had assigned
Steensma to the case.

"A lot of bad things happened to good people in this case," Christensen said. "But in the end, we
know Kidney was the individual who killed Mr. Finney. T hat provides closure for everybody here."

Steensma is retiring after 21 years because of permanent injuries from the shooting. T he other
officer shot, trooper Dan T hayer, has returned to duty.

"T he investigation will remain open due to MSP protocol, but the cold case investigators will no
longer actively work this incident," Christensen said.

T hrough the course of the investigation, officers interviewed 292 individuals and used investigative
subpoenas in conjunction with the Branch County prosecutor's office to force testimony under
oath.

Copyrig ht 2019 Sturg is Journal. All Rights Reserved.

 