Deputy's name released in fatal officer-involved - Pike County News-
Watchman (Waverly, OH) - February 9, 2018
February 9, 2018 | Pike County News-Watchman (Waverly, OH) | Staff Report

T he identity of the Pike County Sheriff's Office deputy involved in the officer-involved fatal shooting
in Pike County on Feb. 1 has been released.

T he deputy, Eric Zirneskie, 25, has been employed with the sheriff's office since August 2016. Prior
to employment with the Pike County Sheriff's Office, Zirneskie was employed part-time for the
Put-In-Bay Police Department and held additional reserve posts in other locations.

Per union contract, Zirneskie has been placed on paid administrative leave until the officer-involved
shooting investigation, led by BCI Crime Scene and the Franklin County Sheriff's Office, is
completed and it is determined he can return to work.

James M . Burks , 35, of Peebles, took place following what began as a

T he fatal shooting of James M . B urks
traffic stop on Route 124, Piketon, in the early morning hours on T hursday, Feb. 1. According to
Pike County Prosecutor Rob Junk, Burks held two active warrants through Pike County Court,
including driving under DUI suspension and domestic violence.

Pike County Sheriff Charles Reader stated that the incident began when Zirneskie attempted to
stop a vehicle in the 13000 block of Route 124 at 3:59 a.m. T he vehicle turned into the drive at
13324 Route 124, according to Reader, and three subjects allegedly fled from the vehicle.

"T he deputy (Zirneskie) gave chase on foot where he made contact with one of the fleeing
subjects and a physical altercation and/or incident took place that ultimately resulted in an officer-
involved shooting where the suspect died due to the injuries he sustained," Reader stated.

Following the incident, Zirneskie was transported to Adena/Pike Medical Center, where he was
medically treated and released.

T he number of times Burks was shot has not been released.

For updates, follow newswatchman.com.

Copyrig ht © 2018 The Pike County News Watchman, APG Media of Ohio LLC. All rights reserved.

 