Report: Baton Rouge rapper killed by police after - Advocate, The (Baton
Rouge, LA) - August 17, 2018
August 17, 2018 | Advocate, The (Baton Rouge, LA) | Advocate Staff

Baton Rouge rapper Aquantis Givens
them with a gun early Friday after a performance at a back to school rap concert, according to T he
Austin Statesman.

Aquantis Givens  was shot and killed by Austin police while he ran toward

Police said they were called around 1 a.m. to an alleyway behind a bar for reports of shots being
fire.

T he newspaper reported when police arrived, they heard gunshots and took up positions near the
alley behind the bar, then saw a man running toward them with a gun, officials said.

Assistant Police Chief Troy Gay said officers gave multiple commands for the man to drop the
weapon before eight officers opened fire. A ninth officer also fired a stun gun at Givens, police said.

Police public safety cameras captured footage of an altercation that was happening in the alley
behind the club, where Gay said two people with firearms could be seen firing their weapons at
each other multiple times.

T he 21-year-old Givens was taken to the hospital, where he died shortly after.

T he Statesman reported police had been called to the same bar earlier in the night for a fight
happening out front.

Family members say Givens was one of the rappers performing, and described him as an up-and-
comer who came to Texas to promote himself. T hey did not know with whom he was fighting.

T he newspaper reported Sheldon Givens, the victim's father, said he learned about his son's death
early Friday on social media as he was getting ready for work.

"I tried to stop him from going out there, he still wanted to go," said Sheldon Givens, who last
talked to his son on Monday to wish him a happy 21st birthday. "I had a funny feeling, like
something bad was going to happen."

Givens leaves behind a 3-year-old daughter.

Everyone is taking it hard right now," Givens' cousin, Darren Bourgeois, who is a police officer in
White Castle, Louisiana, said by phone. "It wasn't something we were expecting to wake up to."

Bourgeois said Givens had a great personality, was smart and loved his family.

"He wasn't really no trouble maker like that," Bourgeois said. "He would give you the shirt off his
back."

Bourgeois said he did not want to comment on the nature of his cousin's shooting.

"I have to see the video," he said.

For the complete story click here.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Advocate / Capital City Press LLC, All Rights Reserved.

 