Details on deputy-involved shootings disclosed - Appeal-Democrat
(Marysville - Yuba City, CA) - August 1, 2018
August 1, 2018 | Appeal-Democrat (Marysville - Yuba City, CA) | Julie R. Johnson/ jjohnson@tcnpress.com

T ehama County Assistant District Attorney Matt Rogers shared details on July 26 about two
deputy sheriff-involved shootings that occurred this summer, which the D.A.'s office was assigned
to investigate as per county protocol.

T he information was shared at press conference during which Rogers, the county's elected
incoming district attorney, said that in both incidents the public was at risk.

"T hese deputies protected the lives of the public in their actions," he said.

T he Diamond Mill incident

T he first shooting incident, on June 6, involved Abraham Noe Flores
armed with a .22 caliber pistol and scoped rifle when his girlfriends called 9-1-1 from their location
at the Diamond Mill property on Diamond Avenue in Red Bluff around 11:28 a.m. stating Flores
was suicidal.

Abraham Noe Flores , 34, of Los Molinos, who was

Rogers said, "At 11:22 a.m. that morning Flores had sent his girlfriend a text message indicting
where he was. When she responded that she was going to call the police, he responded one
minute later saying, 'I'm going to make them kill me.'"

Police located Flores at the Diamond Mill property at 11:37 a.m. standing on an elevated mound of
dirt which gave him an unobstructed view of Shasta College extension campus, the diversion dam
campground, traffic on Highway 99W and Interstate 5.

"Flores was armed with a scoped rifle and a handgun and from that vantage point had the ability to
shoot people, vehicles and buildings within his line of sight," Rogers said.

Flores' girlfriend was standing not too far from Flores as police and T ehama County sheriff's
deputies stationed themselves about 200 yards away. She reportedly tried to convince Flores to let
police help him, but he responded he wanted to be shot and for her to leave.

"He could be heard becoming more agitated and telling deputies to shoot him," Rogers said.
"Standing with a firearm in each hand, he taunted deputies to shoot him saying, 'Shoot me, do it.'"

After trying to get Flores to give himself up for 42 minutes, deputies were able to safely remove
Flores' girlfriend from the site.

"At approximately 12:42 p.m. Flores was observed by law enforcement to be pointing his scoped
rifle at law enforcement officers" Rogers added. "Believing they were about to be shot by Flores, a

sheriff's office sergeant shot and killed Flores. Medics responded and rendered aid, but Flores was
deceased."

He said two additional rifles were recovered from Flores' vehicle – a scoped Remington 7mm and a
.270 rifle.

Los Molinos shooting

At the Dollar General parking lot in Los Molinos on July 6 around 7:29 p.m., a T ehama County
sheriff's deputy made approached a suspicious man, later identified as 28-year-old Alfredo Barajas
of Stockton, who appeared to be removing his license plate from his vehicle.

While questioning Barajas as to what he was doing, the deputy said Barajas gave inconsistent
information as to why he was in Los Molinos and why he was removing his license plate, Rogers
said.

As the deputy attempted to search Barajas' vehicle, a 2018 Honda Accord, the man reportedly
became combative and a struggle broke out between Barajas and the deputy.

Barajas was able to get back into his vehicle and locked the doors, Rogers said.

"T he deputy returned to his patrol vehicle believing Barajas was fleeing the area," he added. "As the
deputy entered his vehicle, he noticed the driver side window of Barajas' vehicle begin to lower. T he
deputy saw Barajas point an AK-47 type semi-automatic large caliber rifle at him and begin firing."

Rogers said the deputy, who had a female ride-along passenger, reached over and pushed the
woman down and place his body over hers.

"It was at this time that the deputy was shot three times from the gunfire, two bullets causing
grazing wounds and a third entering and exiting the deputy's shoulder," he added. "T he female
occupant inside the deputy's vehicle was struck two times with grazing wounds. T he deputy's
canine partner, which was in the rear cage of the vehicle was not injured."

T he deputy was able to exit his vehicle and return fire at Barajas with his department issued
handgun, Rogers reported.

During the exchange of gunfire, Barajas sped away traveling northbound on Highway 99E from
Los Molinos.

T he deputy reported shots fired to sheriff's dispatch at 7:35 p.m., six minutes after his initial
contact with Barajas.

Rogers said Barajas drove at a high speed into Red Bluff, where he entered the northbound on-
ramp of Interstate 5 with a California Highway Patrol officer and Red Bluff police attempting to
overtake the Honda.

"As Barajas drove northbound on Interstate 5 he lost control of his vehicle and crashed onto the

should of Interstate 5 north of Jelly's Ferry Road," he added. "As witnesses of the crash approached
Barajas' vehicle they heard a single gunshot come from inside Barajas' vehicle."

After the scene of the crash was secured by law enforcement, Barajas was located dead inside the
Honda.

Due to witness statements it was possible another person had fled from the Honda at the time of
the crash, but those statements were found to be unsubstantiated by physical evidence at the
crash and it was established Barajas was the only occupant of the Honda.

"During the subsequent investigation, it was discovered Barajas was in possession of two AK-47
rifles, two AR-15 rifles and two Glock pistols," Rogers said. "Barajas was in possession of multiple
high capacity magazines for all his weapons. T his included three, 75 round drum magazines for his
AK-47 rifles and one drum magazine for a Glock pistol. He possessed over 1,000 rounds for his
AK-47 rifles and over 1,000 rounds for the Glock."

Barajas was also reported to be in possession of approximately 11.9 ounces of cocaine, five
pounds of marijuana, and marijuana-related THC Vape capsules, and $2,000 in cash.

According to the report, Barajas fired his AK-47 rifle 71 times in the Dollar General parking lot,
striking the deputy's vehicle 27 times, penetrating multiple layers and entering the vehicle both in
the passenger area, the driver seat and the rear cage.

"T he deputy fired his weapon 16 times," Rogers said. Of those 16 rounds, five struck Barajas.

"Although it was determined Barajas died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to his head after he
crashed on Interstate 5," he said.

Barajas' criminal record included previous arrests for burglary, carrying a concealed weapon,
carrying a loaded weapon in public and driving under the influence.

"We have learned that Barajas had been gone from his home in Stockton for three weeks and had
not contact that we know of with friends or family during that time. We don't know where he had
come from or where he was going. We did find a suicide note in his vehicle," Rogers said.

He added, some the weapons located in Barajas vehicle were registered to him and some reported
stolen, and some of the weapons had been customized.

"It was obvious he was up to no good," Rogers said. "It is amazing that both the deputy and his
passenger survived and I commend the deputy for his actions."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Appeal-Democrat, All Rights Reserved.

 