Kettering police shooting: Officers tried to - Dayton Daily News (OH) -
May 7, 2018
May 7, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Breaking News Staff Kaitlin Schroeder

KET T ERING —

A 24-year-old man was fatally shot in an apartment late Saturday night by a Kettering police officer
who was responding to a report of a woman yelling for help in an apparent case of domestic
violence.

* Incident happened at Chatham Village Apartments

* Simmons and the officer, who was not ID'd, fired weapons, police said.

* Man fatally shot identified as Mitchell Simmons

M itchell Simmons , 24, of Kettering

RELAT ED: New details emerge on Kettering man in fatal police shooting

Update@5:30 p.m.:

T ammy Hildebrecht said she lives across the parking lot from the apartment where Simmons was
fatally shot. When the shots were fired, her husband knew it was gunshots and they looked out of
their window, she said.

"All of the sudden, I heard Boom, boom, boom, boom and then a pause and then boom, boom,
boom, boom," Hildebrecht said. "At the time, we didn't know who did the shooting, didn't know the
officer did the shooting but I'd say, a pause, then four shots."

After the shots were fired, police cruisers came flying in from all directions, Hildebrecht said.
Although it was dark, she she said she saw Kettering officers attempting to revive Simmons.

"I could see officers giving CPR, I'm a nurse, I understand CPR, they did what they could," she said.

T he Montgomery County Coroner's office completed Simmons autopsy Monday and ruled his
death a homicide. He died of multiple gunshot wounds, according to the coroner.

RELAT ED: Kettering police shooting: 911 dispatcher praised for work under pressure

Update@1:09 p.m.:

First report:

Both the police officer, whose name was not released Sunday, and the man who was shot,

M itchell Simmons , fired their guns, said Kettering police Chief Chip Protsman.
M itchell Simmons

Simmons died at the Chatham Village Apartments.

A dispatcher told a neighbor who called 911 that her call likely saved the woman.

"You did the right thing by calling. You probably saved her life," a Kettering police dispatcher said.

RELAT ED: Kettering police-involved shooting: 911 caller describes violent encounter

Protsman said during a press conference Sunday an officer was sent about 11:10 p.m. to an
apartment at 5114 Scarsdale Drive. T he police officer had been dispatched to the apartment after
a 911 caller who identified herself as a neighbor said she could hear a woman crying and screaming
inside the apartment.

"T here was a woman screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!' I can hear her
and she kept screaming 'Get off, get off I can't breathe. You broke my nose, my nose is bleeding
and I can't breathe,'" the neighbor said.

T he officer forcibly entered the apartment and once inside encountered Simmons, who had a gun,
Protsman said. Almost immediately, the officer then reported: "Shots fired! Shots fired!" the 911
call recording shows.

RELAT ED: 10 police-involved shootings reported in past year in this region

T he officer entered the apartment off East Rahn Road alone and was not injured. Protsman said
he believes this was a case of domestic violence and said that the woman suffered minor injuries.

"One officer went upstairs … there was like eight shots fired," the 911 caller said in her second,
frantic call to police dispatchers. "Please tell me the officer's OK."

"Ma'am, the officer is OK … All of our people are OK," a dispatcher told the woman.

T he investigation is ongoing and no other information was made available. T he officer was placed
on paid administrative leave until the investigation is complete, which is the department's protocol.

Saturday's fatal shooting is the 10th officer-involved shooting in the region in the past year. It's the
second Kettering police-involved shooting in the past nine months.

RELAT ED: 2017 Kettering Police Shooting: Cruiser camera video released

Police officer Jonathon McCoy shot and killed Jason M. Hoops, 33, of Fairborn on Aug. 27, 2017,
after a traffic stop of a gray Ford van he was riding in near Craig Drive and East Bataan Drive.
McCoy was not indicted by a Montgomery County grand jury in December, according to the
Montgomery County Prosecutor's Office.

Protsman has said McCoy acted properly by firing after giving 30 commands to the occupants to

get out of the vehicle after the officer spotted a gun grip sticking out of Hoops' pocket. Protsman
said Hoops did not comply with McCoy's instructions and the officer feared for his own safety.

Montgomery County Coroner's Office released Simmons' name and said an autopsy will be
performed.

FIRST  REPORT :

Police surrounded an apartment complex with yellow crime scene tape late Saturday night after
reports of gunfire.

T here was a heavy police presence at the complex off Scarsdale Drive in the city.

Residents reported hearing gunshots, but it's not clear what led police to cordon off the area.

It's also not clear whether anyone has been injured or arrested.

We are working to learn more information and will update this report as warranted.

Got a tip? Call our monitored 24-hour line, 937-259-2237, or send it to newsdesk@cmgohio.com.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 