Kettering police shooting: 911 dispatchers praised - Dayton Daily News
(OH) - May 7, 2018
May 7, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Wayne Baker

KET T ERING —

UPDAT E @2:03 p.m.: Lt. Michael Gabrielson of the Kettering Police Department said two 911
dipsatchers should be saluted for good work as they handled two frantic calls under pressure in an
officer involved shooting incident Saturday night.

"Alberta Feil was the first dispatcher and Whittney Selby the second. T hey both started with KPD on
April 4, 2016," Gabrielson said.

EARLIER: A Kettering 911 dispatcher is being praised for her performance under pressure during an
officer-involved shooting incident Saturday night.

Lt. Michael Gabrielson of the Kettering Police Department told this news outlet Monday that the
dispatcher's performance "was an example of how things are supposed to work."

T he dispatcher handled frantic calls from a woman living in the Chatham Village Apartments who
was relaying information that seemingly pointed out that a neighbor's life was in danger.

"T here was a woman screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!' I can hear
her, and she kept screaming, 'Get off, get off. I can't breathe. You broke my nose. My nose is
bleeding and I can't breathe,' " the neighbor reported in her 911 call she made at 11:10 p.m.

"You did the right thing by calling. You probably saved her life," a Kettering police dispatcher told a
911 caller who reported domestic violence from the apartment above her.

M itchell Simmons , 24, shot at the officer who had arrived on the scene at 5114

Police said Mitchell Simmons
Scarsdale Drive and who forced entry into the apartment after hearing the woman's cries for help.
Simmons was killed when the officer returned fire, police said.

Saturday's performance by the Kettering 911 dispatcher is how the system should work, according
to police.

"T hat is exactly the way it is supposed to work when it comes down to how the dispatcher handled
things and the 911 caller providing information," Gabrielson said. "Specifically in survival situations,
that is the way it should be handled. Of course, everything worked well independent of the result,
which was very unfortunate."

He added that the investigation is ongoing, so details of the firearm used by Simmons and the
identify of the victim aren't being released yet, and some details won't be released for months, he

said, as the case will get prepared to hand over to the prosecutor and eventually a grand jury.

"We do know the female victim did receive treatment at a local hospital, but she wasn't
transported by a medic," Gabrielson said. "T here were no injuries to the officers who responded to
the scene."

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 