UPDATE: Three law enforcement officers cleared in - Jamestown Sun,
The (ND) - March 20, 2018
March 20, 2018 | Jamestown Sun, The (ND) | Chris Olson | News

March 20--T hree local law enforcement officers who shot and killed a Jamestown man after he
fired a weapon at them last month will not face criminal charges.

Stutsman County State's Attorney Fritz Fremgen determined Friday that Jamestown police officer
Logan Hord and Stutsman County deputies Daniel White and Casey Yunck will not be charged after
firing their weapons when suspect Michael Schief f er
pursuit.

M ichael Schief f er fired a gun at them at the end of the

Fremgen made his decision to not seek criminal charges against the law enforcement officers
after reviewing a report about the incident done by North Dakota Bureau of Criminal Investigation.
Jamestown Chief of Police Scott Edinger released the memo on Fremgen's decision to T he Sun on
Monday.

"Schieffer had committed a felony involving violence and the officers were justified in using deadly
force to effectuate Schieffer's arrest," Fremgen said in the memo.

Stutsman County Sheriff Chad Kaiser said White and Yunck should return to work on Wednesday.
Edinger said Hord was back to work on administrative duty and should be back to full duty in the
near future. Kaiser and Edinger both said the officers involved in the shooting were cleared of any
policy violations through separate agency internal investigations and by the BCI investigation.

Kaiser said Monday that having White and Yunck out essentially left the office short one shift for
almost a month.

"It's awesome to have them back," he said.

Edinger said Monday, based on the internal reviews, that he couldn't see how the officers could
have taken any other action.

"T hey really did everything they could to avoid a shooting," he said.

On Feb. 21 a Jamestown police officer saw Schieffer driving and knew Schieffer's driver's license
was suspended. After confirming there was a warrant for his arrest, the officer attempted a traffic
stop. Schieffer did not stop and a pursuit began. During the pursuit, Schieffer fired a handgun four
times at pursuing law enforcement vehicles.

T he pursuit that began in Jamestown ended near Woodworth when Schieffer's car got stuck in a
snowbank.

Schieffer got out of his vehicle holding a handgun and cellphone and walked toward the officers.
T he BCI report stated the officers yelled to Schieffer to drop the gun. At one point, Schieffer had
the gun pointed toward his head. As he got closer to the officers he pointed the gun at the officers
and fired his weapon. T he officers returned fire, killing Schieffer.

In Fremgen's memo, he said during the pursuit Schieffer was talking with a friend on a cellphone. In
an interview with Schieffer's friend on Feb. 22, the friend said Schieffer sounded frantic and told the
friend he was not going back to prison.

"...(Schieffer) had a firearm and had shot at police in an attempt to get the police to shoot him,"
Fremgen wrote in the memo.

T he pursuing law enforcement vehicles had stopped about a half mile back from Schieffer. T he
officers used a public address system and yelled, telling Schieffer to drop the gun. Fremgen said in
the memo that Schieffer also yelled at the officers to shut up as he was talking on the phone.

"It is clear Schieffer heard and considered the pleading of the officers," Fremgen said in the memo.

Hord, Yunck and White waited for backup to arrive after shooting Schieffer and administered first
aid to Schieffer. He died at the scene.

colson@jamestownsun.com

(701) 952-8454

Copyrig ht, 2018, Jamestown Sun, The (ND), All Rights Reserved.

 