Sheriff's office releases name of pursuit suspect - Jamestown Sun, The
(ND) - February 22, 2018
February 22, 2018 | Jamestown Sun, The (ND) | Chris Olson | News

Feb. 22--A 27-year-old Jamestown man was identified Thursday as the man killed by law
enforcement following a pursuit in the city that ended north of Medina in the Woodworth area.

Stutsman County Sheriff Chad Kaiser said Michael Andrew Schief f er
that began late Wednesday morning.

M ichael Andrew Schief f er died following the incident

Kaiser said Schieffer moved around a lot and he didn't have his last known address. Kaiser said
there was a warrant for Schieffer from the city of Bismarck for driving under suspension. He said
this was the reason a Jamestown police officer attempted to pull him over around 11:38 a.m. in the
1900 block of 12th Avenue Northeast. Schieffer led Jamestown police officers on a pursuit from
Jamestown into northwest Stutsman County.

During the pursuit, Kaiser said Schieffer shot at Stutsman County Sheriff's deputies, who continued
the chase after the Jamestown Police Department called off its pursuit. T he pursuit came to an end
near the Woodworth area when the vehicle that Schieffer was driving got stuck.

Scott Edinger, Jamestown chief of police, said Thursday the pursuing law enforcement officers
stopped about a quarter to a half mile behind Schieffer. He said Schieffer got out of the vehicle
holding a cellphone and handgun and walked back to deputies and Jamestown police.

"When he got close to the officers, he raised the gun and fired at the officers," Edinger said. "T he
officers returned fire almost simultaneously and he was killed."

Kaiser said the deputies and officers performed first aid and CPR on Schieffer while the Medina
Ambulance Service responded.

T he incident is being investigated by the Stutsman County Sheriff's Office and the North Dakota
Bureau of Criminal Investigation with support from the Jamestown Police Department.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Jamestown Sun, The (ND), All Rights Reserved.

 