Video shows violent police pursuit near downtown - Las Vegas Review-
Journal (NV) - July 17, 2018 - page B001
July 17, 2018 | Las Vegas Review-Journal (NV) | Katelyn Newberg Las Vegas Review-Journal | Page B001

Las Vegas police on Monday released body camera footage of two men weaving through traffic in
an SUV and shooting at officers during a chase near downtown that left one of the men dead and
the other wounded.

T he footage from Wednesday morning shows officer William Umana following Fidel M iranda
and Rene Nunez, 30, and yelling “shots fired, shots fired” into his radio. When another police car
joined the chase, Umana warned the officer to stay back. T he second officer’s car was hit by
bullets at least twice, and the officer could not finish the chase, Metropolitan Police Department
Assistant Sheriff Tim Kelly said at a briefing Monday.

Fidel Miranda , 22,

As the chase neared its end, Umana, 43, pulled his car closer to the SUV and fired 11 shots through
his windshield and seven shots through his open window.

Nunez exited the car as it was still moving near Hollingsworth Elementary School, 1776 E. Ogden
Ave., and ran up steps outside of the school and attempted to enter, but the door was locked, Kelly
said.

Miranda moved to the driver’s seat and attempted to back up toward Umana, Kelly said. Umana
left his car and continued to fire while plainclothes officer Paul Solomon, 46, approached the
passenger-side door.

Solomon fired his shotgun once and hit Miranda. T he SUV came to a stop at the north wall of the
school, and Miranda was handcuffed while medical was called, Kelly said.

Miranda was pronounced dead at the scene. Officers Umana and Solomon were not injured.

Police arrested Nunez, who had gunshot wounds from the pursuit or from a shooting earlier that
morning.

Miranda and Nunez are suspects in the death of 25-year-old Thomas Romero, who was shot
multiple times in the chest Wednesday at a car wash at 1402 N. Eastern Ave., police said. Romero
died that morning at University Medical Center.

While investigating that shooting, police spotted a 2000 Ford Expedition that matched the
description of the suspects’ car just after 9:30 a.m., near 29th Street and Constantine Avenue.

T hen the SUV sped off. Miranda and Nunez raced through oncoming traffic — along Mojave Road,
Eastern Avenue and Charleston Boulevard — while firing at police, Kelly said. T hey fired 34 rounds
in five volleys during the pursuit, he said, while officers fired 31 shots.

One civilian’s car was struck by gunfire, Kelly said.

Solomon, the plainclothes officer, was not wearing a body camera.

Kelly praised Umana and Solomon as heroic.

“T he officer could have backed off, but he didn’t,” he said, referring to Umana.

Nunez is accused of stealing the SUV on May 20 in North Las Vegas, Kelly said, and one of the
guns Nunez used during the chase had been reported stolen May 20.

Miranda and Nunez had aliases, “Cabezon” and “Kreeepper,” respectively, which could be gang-
related, he said.

Nunez faces multiple charges of murder with a deadly weapon and attempted murder with a
deadly weapon. He remained in the Clark County Detention Center on Monday without bail.

Contact Katelyn Newberg at knewberg@reviewjournal.com or 702-383-0240. Follow @k_newberg
on T witter.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Las Veg as Review-Journal

 