
 
A man fatally shot by a Shelby Township police officer in an apartment complex parking lot on Saturday has been

identified by the Macomb County Sheriff's Office. 

It was one of two fatal weekend shootings by police in Macomb County cities. 

According to Shelby Township police, officers were investigating a stolen vehicle at the Spring Hill Apartments on

Spring Lane at 1a.m. Saturday. 

The vehicle was occupied by a man, now identified as Kanwarbir Malhi, 25, of Shelby Township. 

He "refused to comply with officers repetitive verbal commands and informed officers that he was armed," a news

release from the police department said. 

The officer then fired his weapon "to stop his aggressive action." Police said Malhi sustained "a single gunshot

wound," was treated on the scene by officers and members of the Shelby Township Fire Department, then taken to

Troy Beaumont Hospital. 

Malhi died from his injuries, and the officer who fired the shot has been placed on administrative leave. 

The ongoing investigation has been turned over to the Macomb County Sheriff's Office. 

At a news conference on Monday, Police Chief Robert Shelide clarified details of the incident. He said police were

contacted by Malhi's parents, who said their son stole their vehicle on Friday. On Saturday, he said, Malhi was

spotted by officers on patrol in the apartment complex parking lot. 

Shelide said four officers encountered Malhi, but he refused to listen to their verbal commands and told them he

"There were furtive hand gestures made along with verbal statement, and that's what led our officer into firing his

weapon," Shelide said. "Our officers (are) out there protecting our community, but they also have to protect

Shelide said the incident was a family matter that turned tragic. He added that the officer who shot Malhi has been

on Shelby Police force for 17 years, "with an exemplary record." 

"Nobody wants to do this," Shelide said. "This is the last thing that our officers want to do." 

Shelide said Malhi has had multiple previous contacts with police. Dash-cam footage of the incident was recorded,

Meanwhile, the Sheriff's Office has identified the man who was shot and killed Sunday in an exchange with St. Clair

Shores police outside a banquet hall as a 29-year-old Detroiter. 

A police dog named Axe also died in the line of duty during the incident. 

Officers were responding to calls of an armed man outside the Lakeland Manor on Harper Avenue between 10 and

11 Mile roads, where about 70 people were gathered inside, police said. 

The man, now identified as Theoddeus Gray, was standing outside armed with a rifle and handgun, ignored

demands from officers and attempted to flee on foot, police said. 

Axe, the department's K-9, was deployed and then reportedly shot by Gray with a handgun. Then, officers returned

fire and struck the suspect, who was taken to a hospital and pronounced dead. 

The Sheriff's Office has not shared further details about the incident or a possible motive. 

CREDIT: Aleanna Siacon 

was armed. 

themselves." 

he said. 

 
 
