Informant warned officers before Talihina shootout - McAlester News-
Capital & Democrat (OK) - July 2, 2018
July 2, 2018 | McAlester News-Capital & Democrat (OK) | DERRICK JAMES | STAFF WRITER

An informant warned law enforcement officers several times to "be careful" before a May 11
search warrant operation that ended in a shootout and explosion in downtown T alihina that left
five Oklahoma State Troopers injured, historic buildings destroyed, and the suspect dead.

B radley Daniel Webster
B radley Daniel Webster, 52, of T alihina, was identified by the Oklahoma Highway Patrol as the
suspect that was shot and killed by law enforcement officers who were attempting to execute a
search warrant on the morning of May 11.

Four troopers – Brett Stephens, Brandon Seward, Sammy Lee, Chris Bunch, and Chance T uttle –
suffered minor injuries from either shrapnel from the explosion or from gunfire; the fifth trooper
was struck in his bulletproof vest, which stopped the round from penetrating and "ultimately saved
his life," according to OHP.

T he no-knock warrant was authorized by LeFlore County Associate District Judge Marlon D. Fry on
May 10.

According to an affidavit for search warrant prepared by District 16 Drug and Violent Crime T ask
Force member Rodney Derryberry, the agent was involved in the investigation of felon in
possession of firearm and had probable cause that the following property constitutes evidence of
a crime as defined under Oklahoma Statutes in Title 21, felon in possession of firearm:

"One black in color Uzi pistol and one dark in color assault rifle (AK-47) with magazine and all other
firearms, projectiles, spent shell casings, ammunition, blood, hair, fibers, fingerprints, palm prints,
items containing DNA, clothing, and other microscopic, biological, and physical evidence, including
any device or apparatus used for concealment such as holsters or items used for transporting a
firearm, together with any bills, letters, titles, or other documents identifying the occupants of the
residence to be searched."

Derryberry wrote in the search warrant affidavit that on May 9, T alihina Chief of Police Rodney
Faulkenberry arrested an informant for active warrants and brought the individual to talk with
Derryberry.

Upon arrest, the informant told Faulkenberry that he saw a loaded AK-47, and an "Uzi style" pistol
while in the main living area of Webster's residence on May 5, the affidavit states.

T he informant said he asked Webster about the firearms because he knew that Webster was a
convicted felon, according to the affidavit. Webster allegedly responded that he had "them and
more because he was not going back to jail and was ready to go on a shooting spree at City Hall,"
the affidavit states.

Derryberry wrote in the affidavit that the individual believed that the firearms were replicas, until the
informant picked up the assault rifle and charged the bolt and a live round ejected out of the
chamber.

T he informant knew "this was not good" because of Webster's past criminal history and that
Webster had told the informant "he had previously shot and killed two guys in the past," the
affidavit states.

According to the affidavit, Derryberry found news stories from April 2006 in Mena, Arkansas,
stating that Webster shot and killed two people, plus shot a third person in the face during an
attempted robbery of a "marijuana grow."

Faulkenberry observed counter surveillance cameras attached to the residence to be searched
facing the west alleyway and also facing Second Street, the affidavit states.

T he informant told the investigators that he would be a named informant on a search warrant,
when asked why, the informant said, "because he doesn't want to see anyone killed," and told the
investigators twice "to be careful" if investigators went to the residence, the affidavit states.

T he court was asked to recognize the threat to law enforcement and public safety that Webster
had used deadly force in the past to protect criminal activity for the request of the no-knock search
warrant, the affidavit states.

LeFlore County Associate District Judge Marlon D. Fry authorized the search of Webster's property
"in the daytime to make a search of said persons, residence, vehicles, and/or buildings and
premises, the curtilage thereof and appurtenances thereto belonging to the described property,
for said property, and if found to seize the same, and make a written return hereof according to
law; a no knock warrant for immediate officer safety and public safety is authorized by the court,"
the search warrant states.

According to a second affidavit for search warrant prepared by Oklahoma Highway Patrol T rooper
Scott Miller, with OHP's Troop Z, at approximately 6:04 a.m. May 11, members of the OHP
T actical Team began to make entry into the residence to be searched while assisting in the
execution of a search warrant.

Miller wrote in the affidavit that shortly after troopers breached the door, they deployed a
diversionary device on a pole through a window and then extricated the device, the affidavit states.
T hen a resident inside the structure began firing a weapon at the entry team, the affidavit states.

According to the affidavit, the entry team visually observed only three entry points to the residence
and saw the suspect did not exit the residence.

T roopers also noticed a small fire inside the residence before it consumed the building and spread
into an adjacent building, according to the affidavit. T he affidavit states the interior of the
residence contained evidence of a crime.

T he trooper requested in the search warrant for permission to thoroughly search the residence
both from the ground and from the air with a drone camera.

T he search warrant was directed to the Sheriff of LeFlore County or any of his duly appointed and
authorized deputies, any constable or peace officer of the State of Oklahoma, including any Drug
T ask Force Officer/Investigator with the Sixteenth Judicial District, Trooper of Oklahoma Highway
Patrol, Agent of the Oklahoma State Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drug, Agent of the
Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation, or Special Agents and T ask Force Officers of the Drug
Enforcement Agency, Special Agent of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, or any other
state or federal peace officer.

T he second search warrant was authorized by Fry at 11:10 a.m. May 11 for any officer executing
the search warrant both on land and by air including the using a drone camera to facilitate the
search in the daytime or nighttime, the search warrant stated.

T he warrant was returned May 15 by Miller and the inventory of the search seized from Webster's
residence include:

28 cartridges

64 casings

52 projectiles

Five magazine springs

Firearm suppressor components

One AR type firearm

One Uzi type firearm

One BB type rifle

One diversionary device (flash bang)

One propane torch head

T wo ballistic plates

T wo keys

One pill bottle

One ballistic scope ring

One handgun type firearm (barrel, slide, and trigger mechanism)

One cigarette lighter

One cell phone

One unknown piece of metal

One magazine

One knife

One television

Four fire debris samples (collected by AT F)

Contact Derrick James at djames@mcalsternews.com

Copyrig ht 2018, McAlester News-Capital & Democrat / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 