Details emerge in Talihina shootout, fire - - Poteau Daily News & Sun
(OK) - June 30, 2018 - page 1
June 30, 2018 | Poteau Daily News & Sun (OK) | Amanda Corbin PDN Reporter | Page 1

Search warrant documents from the LeFlore County Courthouse offer further details into the
T alihina fire and shootout which left one man dead dead, four troopers injured and two historic
buildings destroyed in the downtown.

T he suspect in the May 11 shootout was identified as 52-year-old Bradley Daniel Webster
T alihina.

B radley Daniel Webster of

T he Oklahoma Highway Patrol Tactical Team executed a search warrant on Webster’s residence
around 6 a.m. that day when he allegedly began to shoot at officers. T hey returned fire. Webster
died at the scene. Four troopers received non-life threatening injuries and a fifth was saved by his
ballistic vest.

T he search warrant for May 11-15 shows an inventory of items recovered from Webster’s
residence on Second Street. It listed this inventory of items recovered from the burnt-out structure
include: 28 cartridges, 64 casings, 52 projectiles, five magazine springs, firearm suppressor
components, one AR-type firearm, one Uzi-type firearm, one handgun-type firearm, one BB-type
firearm, one diversionary device (flash bang), one propane torch head, two ballistic plates, one
ballistic scope ring, a knife, magazine, pill bottle, cigarette lighter, cellphone, unknown piece of
metal, television and four fire debris samples.

T he warrant detailed an incident on May 9 where T alihina Police Chief Rodney Faulkenberry
arrested Robert Coleman for active warrants. It says Coleman told Faulkenberry he worked for
Webster and saw an assault rifle, AK-47 and an Uzi-style pistol in Webster’s home on May 5.
Coleman claims Webster, a convicted felon, had the weapons because he “was not going back to
jail and was ready to go on a shooting spree at city hall.”

Coleman told Faulkenberry about Webster’s past. In 2006, Webster shot and killed two men who
broke into his home near Mena, Ark. T he men — Chris Pangle, 35, and Thai Flores, 23 —
reportedly attempted to rob Webster’s marijuana grow he had at the residence. T he warrant said
Webster also shot a third person in the face. Webster was shot in the abdomen and returned fire.
His wife and 17-month-old son were reportedly home at the time.

A search of the residence allegedly uncovered the hydroponic marijuana growing operation with
292 plants. Although not charged in the deaths of the men, due to Webster defending himself and
his property, he was charged with endangering the welfare of a minor and drug-and firearm-
related charges.

T he warrant added that Coleman agreed to be an informant because he didn’t want to see anyone
killed. He also told the officers twice to be careful. Due to Webster’s history, a no-knock warrant

was requested.

Documents go on to explain what happened that day. When the tactical team breached the door
into Webster’s home, they deployed a diversionary device on a pole through a window, then
extricated the device. T his is when Webster is said to have began firing at the troopers. T hey
exchanged fire and took cover. A member of the team noticed a small fire inside but no one exited
the home. T he fire then consumed the building and spread to a second building, the old Treats and
T reasures.

T he T alihina fire and shootout ignited a multi-agency and multi-county response. Eighteen fire
departments responded from several bordering counties, as well as a number of emergency
management organizations. T he OHP Criminal Investigations Division, the Bureau of Alcohol,
T obacco, Firearms and Explosives and the Fire Marshal’s Office investigated the case.

Copyrig ht 2018, Poteau Daily News & Sun, All Rights Reserved.

 