Suspect killed in Talihina incident was convicted - Times Record (Fort
Smith, AR) - May 25, 2018 - page A3
May 25, 2018 | Times Record (Fort Smith, AR) | Max Bryan Times Record mbryan@swtimes.com | Article |
Page A3

T he man who was killed in a firefight with Oklahoma troopers in T alihina had a criminal history that
spanned Oklahoma and Arkansas.

B radley Daniel Webster
B radley Daniel Webster, 52, of T alihina was killed in an officer-involved shooting that occurred
after he fire a gun and possibly detonated a booby trap at tactical troopers with Oklahoma
Highway Patrol when they tried to serve a “high-risk” narcotics warrant on him on the morning of
May 11 in T alihina, Capt. Paul T immons with OHP said. Court documents show Webster was a
convicted felon in Polk County and had pending felony charges stemming from offenses in LeFlore
County six months prior to his death.

Webster opened fire “with what investigators believe to be a fully automatic weapon,” a May 14
news release from OHP states. One of his convictions in Polk County, which stemmed from a
firefight following the attempted robbery of his residence on April 9, 2006, was possession or use
of a machine gun, according to Polk County court documents.

Webster killed one suspect while defending his residence during the incident, according to the
affidavit. He did not face any charge in connection with the slaying.

Webster’s other convictions that arose from this incident were for first-degree endangering the
welfare of a minor, manufacturing 10-100 pounds of marijuana, possession of marijuana with
intent to deliver, possession of drug paraphernalia and possession of a defaced firearm. T he
defaced firearm was the 9mm Uzi submachine gun that was the source of his possession or use of
a machine gun charge, according to documents.

T immons said he did not know how Webster, a convicted felon, obtained the gun he used to fire at
troopers on May 11.

Webster’s pending felony charges in LeFlore County were felony throw or drop object on motor
vehicle, felony malicious injury to property and misdemeanor breaking and entering without
permission. Webster was charged after he screamed at people inside a dump truck at a red light,
banged on and dented the passenger side door of the vehicle, screamed profanities at the people
inside after opening the passenger door and threw a rock at the windshield on Nov. 14, 2017, in
T alihina, according to court documents.

T immons said Webster had “made threats about not going back to prison and made threats
against law enforcement” prior to his death on May 11. T alihina Police Chief Rodney Faulkenberry
said members of his department had “had dealings” with Webster in the past, but did not specify
any further.

T he possible booby trap is a suspected cause of a fire that destroyed two historic buildings in
downtown T alihina on May 11, T immons said. T he firefight and fire prompted the response of 17
fire departments, four emergency management agencies and seven law enforcement agencies,
according to John Waggoner with the Police Department.

All of downtown T alihina was blocked off for three days following the firefight and fire, Waggoner
said. T he intersection of Second and Dallas streets, which is near the two buildings that were
destroyed in the fire, was still blocked off with crime scene tape on May 17.

T he two buildings destroyed by the fire have been demolished, and crime scene tape has been
entirely lifted from downtown T alihina.

Faulkenberry said the town “will bounce back” from the May 11 incident.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Times Record. All Rights Reserved.

 