


4th shooting by local officers in 9 months - Walton Tribune, The
(Monroe, GA) - March 2, 2019
March 2, 2019 | Walton Tribune, The (Monroe, GA) | David Clemons | Walton Tribune

T he Walton County sheriff's deputy who fired his service weapon at a man he said pulled a gun on
him while running away in Loganville on Tuesday became just the latest law enforcement officer to
have to make a split-second decision that could claim a life — or cost his own.

Four times in the past nine months, a law enforcement officer in Walton County has shot a suspect
when they believed a life was in danger. In three of those cases, the person died.

T he first occurred June 12 at a home in the 3700 block of Lovers Lane in unincorporated Monroe. A
sheriff's deputy fatally shot 26-year-old Chavius Hollis, who reportedly raised his weapon and shot
at a family member just before being shot by the deputy, who was called out to a domestic
disturbance.

William Earnest B rooks , 43, was killed July 26 when he reportedly showed a weapon to officers
William Earnest B rooks
from multiple agencies during a foot chase near the Hard Labor Creek Reservoir.

Mahlon Edward Summerour, 63, was killed Oct. 18 when Monroe police officers responded to 911
calls of a man carrying a gun on East Marable Street. He pointed the object — which later turned
out to be a replica Thompson machine gun — at the officers, and one fired his service weapon,
fatally striking him in the chest.

T he Loganville shooting was the third involving a law enforcement officer in Georgia on T uesday.

A state trooper stopped a car on Interstate 95 in McIntosh County. T he driver, 20-year-old Sasha
Ann Pishko, of Clermont, Florida, struck the trooper with her car. T he trooper shot at the car, killing
Pishko.

T he GBI also responded Tuesday afternoon to a shooting involving a police officer in southwest
Atlanta.

Willie Banks, 34, of Atlanta, was shot when the car he was driving — reportedly stolen — crashed
after a police chase.

A Cherokee County man was shot by Smyrna police Thursday when he didn't comply with officers'
orders to drop the gun he was holding in the parking lot of an office complex. Gary Fink, 68,
sustained non-life-threatening injuries.4

Copyrig ht, 2019, The Walton Tribune

 
Deputies, officer kill suspect with weapon - Walton Tribune, The
(Monroe, GA) - July 27, 2018
July 27, 2018 | Walton Tribune, The (Monroe, GA) | Stephen Milligan | The Tribune

T he suspect in an officer-involved shooting is dead after the Walton County Sheriff's Office and
Social Circle Police Department responded to the incident on Social Circle Fairplay Road.

William Earnest B rooks , 43, was killed when he reportedly brandished a weapon at officers
William Earnest B rooks
during the incident.

Deputies first responded to reports of a man driving an AT V in the yard on Social Circle Fairplay
Road around 2:25 p.m. T hursday. T he homeowner complained the man, later identified as Brooks,
was supposed to be cutting his lawn and wanted deputies to speak to him.

When deputies arrived, Brooks fled on foot and an altercation began.

"It appears the suspect was overpowering the deputy and the deputy fired one round," Nelly Miles
with the GBI said at a press conference Thursday evening in front of the sheriff's office. "T he
suspect took the weapon from the deputy and fled deeper into the woods."

Miles said helicopters observed Brooks flee to the Hard Labor Creek Reservoir and attempt to
steal a boat, but then waded back into the water as other officers arrived.

"He brandished the weapon and officers fired," Miles said.

In all, six deputies and one officer with the SCPD all fired at Brooks, who was killed at the scene.

T he GBI took over the scene when they arrived and spoke with the deputies and officers involved.
After they conclude their investigation, they will hand any findings to the District Attorney's office,
while the WCSO will resume control of the case.

Sheriff Joe Chapman said he was confident in the GBI's handling of the case.

"I hate that this incident happened," Chapman said. "But that's why we rely on these people at the
GBI."

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Walton Tribune

 
GBI not finished looking into shootings - Walton Tribune, The (Monroe,
GA) - October 3, 2018
October 3, 2018 | Walton Tribune, The (Monroe, GA) | David Clemons | Walton Tribune

MONROE, Ga. — T he state is continuing to look into two police shootings from the last four
months.

T wice — once in June on Lovers Lane and again in July on Social Circle-Fairplay Road — local law
enforcement shot at suspects. T he Georgia Bureau of Investigation was called in to investigate
and turn over its findings to the Alcovy Circuit district attorney's office.

But that hasn't happened yet.

"Investigating agencies are waiting on additional tests," Nelly Miles, director of the GBI Office of
Public Affairs, told T he Walton T ribune.

On June 12, Walton County sheriff's deputies were called to a home at 3775 Lovers Lane, Monroe,
about a disturbance involving a family member with a gun.

Chauvis Hollis, 26, reportedly was exhibiting erratic behavior. Multiple deputies entered the home
along with a family member in an attempt to calm Hollis. During the encounter, Hollis raised his
gun and fired it, striking the family member.

One deputy reportedly returned fire, striking Hollis and killing him. T he relative survived and no
officers were injured.

On July 26, a man later identified as 43-year-old William Earnest B rooks
by agents from numerous agencies.

William Earnest B rooks  died after behind shot at

Deputies got a call of an intruder riding an AT V outside a home on Social Circle-Fairplay Road. He
ran from the first deputies who arrived, leading to a physical altercation in which Brooks
overpowered a deputy, who drew his service weapon and fired one round.

It's unknown if Brooks was hit then, but Brooks took the gun and ran deeper into the woods. By
this point more deputies, plus state troopers, Social Circle police officers and Georgia Department
of Natural Resources rangers arrived on scene.

A Georgia State Patrol helicopter saw Brooks turn toward the shoreline of Hard Labor Creek
Reservoir and brandish a weapon.

Multiple officers from the Sheriff's Office and one officer from the Social Circle Police Department
fired at Brooks, who died on the scene.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Walton Tribune

 
GBI investigates officer shooting death of man in - Athens Banner-
Herald (GA) - July 27, 2018
July 27, 2018 | Athens Banner-Herald (GA) | Wayne Ford

Georgia Bureau of Investigation agents are reviewing actions by officers in Walton County who
shot and killed a man Thursday on the outskirts of Social Circle.

William Earnest B rooks .
T he shooting by several officers resulted in the death of 43-year-old William Earnest B rooks

T he GBI released a statement Friday noting that at about 2:25 p.m. Thursday Walton County
sheriff's deputies responded to a 911 call that a man was riding an AT V at a Social Circle home on
Fairplay Road. T he caller told 911 that he had contacted the homeowner, who said that someone
should be there doing yard work and not riding an AT V.

When a deputy arrived, he contacted Brooks, who fled and "a foot chase ensued followed by a
physical altercation in a field a short distance behind the house," according to the GBI.

Preliminary information suggest that the deputy was overpowered by Brooks. T he deputy
withdrew his firearm and fired once, but it is unknown if Brooks was wounded, the GBI said.

Brooks took the deputy's gun and fled deeper into the woods, according to the report.

Walton sheriff's deputies, Social Circle police, Georgia State Patrol troopers and Department of
Natural Resources rangers responded.

T he GBI said Brooks was spotted near a lake and that a GSP helicopter trooper observed Brooks
turn toward the shoreline and brandish a weapon.

At this time, Walton County deputies and one Social Circle officer fired at Brooks, who was killed at
the scene, according to the report.

"Six deputies and one Social Circle police officer, so seven total [fired at the suspect]," Walton
County Sheriff Joe Chapman told Fox 5 T V of Atlanta.

T he GBI said it's unclear if the man fired his weapon at the law enforcement officers.

T he deputy involved in the original altercation with Brooks was treated and released from a local
hospital, the GBI said.

T he GBI will turn the results of its investigation over to the Walton County District Attorney's
Office.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Athens Banner-Herald, All Rights Reserved.

 

 
The GBI has identified the man they say fought with a Walton County deputy and stole his gun before being fatally

shot by multiple deputies and officers Thursday afternoon. 

William Earnest Brooks, 43, was allegedly riding an ATV outside of a home on Social Circle Fairplay Road,

prompting a 911 call that sent deputies to the home, the GBI said in a news release. 

The caller said the homeowner expected someone to be there to do some yardwork but not to ride an ATV, the

release said. Deputies attempted to talk with Brooks, but he allegedly ran away, prompting a chase. 

After the chase, the GBI said Brooks was overpowering the deputy, causing the deputy to draw his weapon and fire

one round, missing Brooks. 

brandished, the release said. 

Brooks then took the weapon and fled deeper into the woods, the release said. 

During the search, a Georgia State Patrol helicopter spotted Brooks near a lake shoreline with his weapon

Multiple Walton County deputies and one Social Circle police officer then fired at Brooks, who died at the scene,

the release said. Channel 2 Action News reported that six Walton County deputies fired shots. 

The deputy who was overpowered by Brooks was taken to a local hospital and treated for minor injuries, the

release said. 

The GBI was called in to investigate after the incident. 
 
 



 
An Oakfield man shot by a Maine state trooper succumbed to his injuries at a Bangor hospital on Saturday. 

John Corneil, 54, was shot Friday during an armed confrontation with state police outside a grocery store in

Oakfield, according to Maine Department of Public Safety spokesman Stephen McCausland. 

Corneil was initially transported to Houlton Regional Hospital for treatment of gunshot wounds, and was later

transferred to Eastern Maine Medical Center in Bangor, where he underwent surgery and later died. 

McCausland said an autopsy was scheduled for Sunday, and that the Maine attorney general's office is

investigating the officer-involved shooting, as is standard procedure. 

Corniel was shot by Sgt. Chad Fuller of the state police outside the Oakfield Thriftway on Friday after Fuller and

two other state troopers went to arrest Corneil in connection with an incident that happened in earlier in the week

in Smyrna, Lt. Col. John Cote said last week. 

Corneil allegedly challenged troopers outside the store with a handgun, which was later determined to be a pellet

gun resembling a Beretta 9 mm pistol, according to Cote. 

Fuller, a 20-year state police veteran, was placed on paid administrative leave while the shooting is investigated, as

is standard procedure. 

concludes. 

The Maine attorney general's office investigates every time Maine police use deadly force to determine whether

officers were legally justified in taking a life, with the findings eventually made public once the investigation

In its more than 100 reviews of officer-involved shootings since 1990, the attorney general's office has never found

that an officer should face criminal charges, according to a previously published report. 

In March, the attorney general's office ruled in two separate cases that state troopers and the Vassalboro police

chief were legally justified in the fatal 2017 shooting of Kadhar Bailey, 25, and Ambroshia Fagre, 18, in a pickup

truck that rammed a parked police cruiser in Vassalboro, and that a Portland police officer was legally justified in

the 2017 shooting death of Chance David Baker, 22, at the Union Station Plaza on St. John Street where he was

reportedly acting erratically and waving a long gun that was later determined to be an air rifle. 

Follow the Bangor Daily News on Facebook for the latest Maine news. 

Credit: Christopher Burns BDN Staff 
 
 

Oakfield man shot in confrontation with state - St. John Valley Times
(Madawaska, ME) - May 6, 2018
May 6, 2018 | St. John Valley Times (Madawaska, ME) | Christopher Burns

An Oakfield man shot by a Maine state trooper succumbed to his injuries at a Bangor hospital on
Saturday.

John Corneil, 54, was shot Friday during an armed confrontation with state police outside a
John Corneil
grocery store in Oakfield, according to Maine Department of Public Safety spokesman Stephen
McCausland.

Corneil was initially transported to Houlton Regional Hospital for treatment of gunshot wounds,
and was later transferred to Eastern Maine Medical Center in Bangor, where he underwent surgery
and later died.

McCausland said an autopsy was scheduled for Sunday, and that the Maine attorney general's
office is investigating the officer-involved shooting, as is standard procedure.

Corniel was shot by Sgt. Chad Fuller of the state police outside the Oakfield T hriftway on Friday
after Fuller and two other state troopers went to arrest Corneil in connection with an incident that
happened in earlier in the week in Smyrna, Lt. Col. John Cote said last week.

Corneil allegedly challenged troopers outside the store with a handgun, which was later determined
to be a pellet gun resembling a Beretta 9 mm pistol, according to Cote.

Fuller, a 20-year state police veteran, was placed on paid administrative leave while the shooting is
investigated, as is standard procedure.

T he Maine attorney general's office investigates every time Maine police use deadly force to
determine whether officers were legally justified in taking a life, with the findings eventually made
public once the investigation concludes.

In its more than 100 reviews of officer-involved shootings since 1990, the attorney general's office
has never found that an officer should face criminal charges, according to a previously published
report.

In March, the attorney general's office ruled in two separate cases that state troopers and the
Vassalboro police chief were legally justified in the fatal 2017 shooting of Kadhar Bailey, 25, and
Ambroshia Fagre, 18, in a pickup truck that rammed a parked police cruiser in Vassalboro, and that
a Portland police officer was legally justified in the 2017 shooting death of Chance David Baker, 22,
at the Union Station Plaza on St. John Street where he was reportedly acting erratically and waving
a long gun that was later determined to be an air rifle.

Copyrig ht 2018 St. John Valley Times, All Rights Reserved.

 

Aroostook County man shot by Maine State Police - Kennebec Journal
(Augusta, ME) - May 6, 2018
May 6, 2018 | Kennebec Journal (Augusta, ME) | Beth Quimby

T he Smyrna man shot by a Maine State Police sergeant during an armed confrontation at the
T hriftway convenience store in Oakfield on Friday has died.

Maine Department of Public Safety spokesman Steve McCausland said John Corneil
Saturday at Eastern Maine Medical Center in Bangor.

John Corneil, 54, died

An autopsy was being conducted Sunday at the state Medical Examiner's Office in Augusta,
McCausland said in a press release.

T hree troopers went to the store on Ridge Road in Oakfield, an Aroostook County town west of
Houlton, to try to arrest Corneil on warrants for assault, criminal threatening, terrorizing and
reckless conduct in an incident earlier in the week in Smryna.

As customers watched, Corneil threatened the troopers with what appeared to be a handgun. Sgt.
Chad Fuller, a 20-year veteran of the state police, shot Corneil. Corneil was using what was later
determined to be a pellet gun that looked like a semi-automatic pistol, McCausland said.

T he Maine Attorney General's Office continues to investigate the incident, which is standard in all
police-involved shootings, he said.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.

 

 
 


 
OAKFIELD, Maine -- A Maine State Police sergeant shot a man during an armed confrontation in Oakfield on Friday

as officers were trying to arrest the suspect in an ongoing case, according to police. 

The wounded man, 54-year-old John Corneil of Smyrna, was taken to Houlton Regional Hospital to be treated. No

one else was injured. 

Stephen McCausland, spokesman for the Maine Department of Public Safety, confirmed Friday afternoon that the

shooting happened just after 11 a.m. near the Oakfield Thriftway. 

He said three state troopers went to the store to arrest Corneil. An armed confrontation between the man and Sgt.

Chad Fuller ensued outside the store, and the suspect was shot, McCausland said in a news release Friday

afternoon. No other details about the shooting or why Corneil was wanted were released. 

Under standard procedure, Fuller, a 20-year veteran of the state police has been placed on administrative leave

with pay pending an investigation by the state attorney general's office. 

State police also sent investigators to the scene. 

U.S. Border Patrol Agents blocked off access to Ridge Road leading to the Oakfield Thriftway shortly after the

shooting occurred. They were diverting traffic around the road Friday afternoon. Down the road leading to the

store, blue lights were visible surrounding the scene. 

Corneil was no stranger to law enforcement. According to a criminal history record obtained from the State Bureau

of Identification, he was arrested in June 2008 after refusing to submit to a warrant for his arrest. No information

was provided about the reasons for the warrant, but the record indicates Corneil was sentenced to 48 hours in jail

and fined $250. 

warrant in late August 1998. 

He was sentenced in March 1999 to two years in prison with all but 45 days suspended, on a charge of criminal

threatening with a dangerous weapon, for firing at a state police officer who tried to serve him with an arrest

According to archives from the Bangor Daily News, Corneil barricaded himself in his Merrill house on Route 212 for

four hours when the trooper tried to serve him with the warrant. That warrant stemmed from his failure to appear in

court on charges connected to a police chase earlier that summer when Corneil was charged with assault on an

officer, according to the BDN archives. 

Jon Porter, principal at Southern Aroostook Community School, which is located about three miles away, said

Friday afternoon that police notified the school, but no lockdown procedures were initiated. 

"By the time we heard about it, it was over," Porter said. "Law enforcement notifies us if they need us to lock down.

We have our standard procedures of keeping outside doors locked and any visitor needs to buzz to get in the

Writer Joseph Cyr of the Houlton Pioneer Times contributed to this report. 

building." 

Credit: Jen Lynds BDN Staff 
 
 

Archives &records; Shootings; Criminal investigations; Law enforcement; Border

Company / organization:

Name: Houlton Regional Hospital; NAICS: 622110; Name: State Police-Maine; NAICS:



 
May 04--The Maine Attorney General's Office is investigating an officer-involved shooting in Oakfield in which a

state trooper wounded a man after getting into an armed confrontation with him. 

Three troopers went to the Oakfield Thriftway store on Ridge Road just after 11 a.m. on Friday to arrest 54-year-old

John Corneil of Smyrna, as part of an ongoing investigation, said State Police spokesman Stephen McCausland.

Oakfield sits west of Houlton in Aroostook County. 

An armed confrontation ensued between Corneil and State Police Sgt. Chad Fuller, a 20-year veteran of the State

The extent and seriousness of Corneil's injuries were not clear. He was transported to the Houlton hospital for

As is standard procedure, Fuller has been placed on administrative leave while the officer-involved shooting is

investigated by the state Attorney General's Office. 

Wielding knife and bleach, Freeport man tried to kill his parents, police say 

Police, shot Corneil. 

treatment. 

filed under: 

houlton maine, oakfield maine 

Related Stories 

Latest Articles 

Life &Culture 

Business 

Local &State 

States approve religious vetoes on LGBT adoptions 

State official urges probe into CMP wrongdoing 

Sarah Mildred Long Bridge finally opens for good 

Sponsored 

National Nurses Week 2018 

Local &State 

CREDIT: By Matt Byrne 
 
 


 
OAKFIELD, Maine -- An Oakfield man shot by a state police sergeant remains at a Bangor hospital Saturday, one

day after he was shot in an armed confrontation outside a grocery store. 

Steve McCausland, spokesman for the state Department of Public Safety, said in a statement Saturday that John

Corneil, 54, remained at Eastern Maine Medical Center in Bangor. He was initially treated at Houlton Regional

Hospital for gunshot wounds, and later underwent surgery at the Bangor hospital. A spokesperson for EMMC said

that they had no information on Corneil Saturday. 

[Maine State Police trooper shoots suspect in Oakfield] 

Corneil was shot by Sgt. Chad Fuller outside the Oakfield Thriftway on the Ridge Road after he and two other

troopers went to arrest Corneil on several warrants, according to Lt. Col. John Cote, deputy chief of the State

Police. Cote said that Corneil was wanted on warrants charging him with assault, criminal threatening, terrorizing

and reckless conduct related to an incident earlier in the week in Smyrna. According to Cote, Corneil challenged

troopers outside a convenience store with a handgun. The weapon was later determined to be a pellet gun that

resembled a Beretta 9mm semi-automatic pistol. The incident was reportedly witnessed by several patrons of the

store. 

Corneil has a significant history with law enforcement. According to a criminal history record obtained from the

State Bureau of Identification, he was arrested in June 2008 after refusing to submit to a warrant for his arrest. No

information was provided about the reasons for the warrant, but the record indicates Corneil was sentenced to 48

hours in jail and fined $250. 

warrant in late August 1998. 

He was sentenced in March 1999 to two years in prison with all but 45 days suspended on a charge of criminal

threatening with a dangerous weapon, for firing at a state police officer who tried to serve him with an arrest

According to archives from the Bangor Daily News, Corneil barricaded himself in his Merrill house on Route 212 for

four hours when the trooper tried to serve him with the 1998 warrant. That warrant stemmed from his failure to

appear in court on charges connected to a police chase earlier that summer, for which Corneil was charged with

assault on an officer. 

Fuller, a 20-year-veteran of the state police, remains on paid administrative leave while the incident is reviewed.

This is standard procedure while the Attorney General's Office investigates the incident. 

Follow the Bangor Daily News on Facebook for the latest Maine news. 

Credit: Jen Lynds BDN Staff 
 
 

Southern Aroostook man shot by state police in - St. John Valley Times
(Madawaska, ME) - May 6, 2018
May 6, 2018 | St. John Valley Times (Madawaska, ME) | Jen Lynds

A southern Aroostook man shot by a Maine state trooper as officers tried to arrest him in Oakfield
last Friday, died of his injuries at a Bangor hospital on Saturday.

John Corneil, 54, of Merrill was shot during an armed confrontation with state police outside the
John Corneil
T hriftway grocery store in Oakfield, according to Maine Department of Public Safety spokesman
Stephen McCausland.

Medical personnel initially transported Corneil to Houlton Regional Hospital for treatment of
gunshot wounds, and later transferred him to Eastern Maine Medical Center in Bangor, where he
underwent surgery and later died.

McCausland said that the Maine attorney general's office is investigating the officer-involved
shooting, as is standard procedure. T he state medical examiner's office has completed an
autopsy, but the results are being withheld as part of the investigations, according spokesman
Mark Belserene.

Sgt. Chad Fuller of the state police shot Corneil outside the Oakfield T hriftway on Friday, May 4,
after Fuller and two other state troopers went to arrest Corneil in connection with an incident that
happened earlier in the week in Smyrna, Lt. Col. John Cote said last week.

Corneil allegedly challenged troopers outside the store with a handgun, which was later determined
to be a pellet gun resembling a Beretta 9 mm pistol, according to Cote.

Suzanne and Alain Philibert of Oakfield who live on the Ridge Road, just across the street from the
Oakfield T hriftway said Monday that they were home when the shooting happened and heard the
gunfire.

"We heard the shots and then looked and saw that he [Corneil] was on the ground just outside the
entrance to the store," Alain Philibert said.

Suzanne Philibert said that the loud noise coming from the direction of the store was "startling."

"It was like a sledgehammer hitting metal, that is all I can think of to describe what it sounded like,"
she said. "He was on the ground, but he was still talking and moving a bit."

Both said that they believe they heard four shots fired.

T he Philiberts said that they had seen Corneil around the community but did not know him well.

"He kept to himself," said Suzanne Philibert.

"It is a terrible tragedy," she added, "because a mother has lost a son and his loved ones have lost
someone that they loved."

Corneil has a significant history with law enforcement. According to a criminal history record
obtained from the State Bureau of Identification, he was arrested in June 2008 after refusing to
submit to a warrant for his arrest. No information was provided about the reasons for the warrant,
but the record indicates Corneil was sentenced to 48 hours in jail and fined $250.

He was sentenced in March 1999 to two years in prison with all but 45 days suspended on a charge
of criminal threatening with a dangerous weapon, for firing at a state police officer who tried to
serve him with an arrest warrant in late August 1998.

According to archives from the Bangor Daily News, Corneil barricaded himself in his Merrill house
on Route 212 for four hours when the trooper tried to serve him with the 1998 warrant. T hat
warrant stemmed from his failure to appear in court on charges connected to a police chase
earlier that summer, for which Corneil was charged with assault on an officer.

Fuller, a 20-year state police veteran, was placed on paid administrative leave while the shooting is
investigated, as is standard procedure.

T he Maine attorney general's office investigates every time Maine police use deadly force to
determine whether officers were legally justified in taking a life, with the findings eventually made
public once the investigation concludes.

Copyrig ht 2018 St. John Valley Times, All Rights Reserved.

 
State police sergeant wounds man in armed - Kennebec Journal
(Augusta, ME) - May 4, 2018
May 4, 2018 | Kennebec Journal (Augusta, ME) | Matt Byrne

A Maine State Police sergeant shot and wounded a man during an armed confrontation in
Aroostook County on Friday, according to state police.

T hree troopers went to the Oakfield T hriftway store on Ridge Road just after 11 a.m. to arrest
John Corneil
John Corneil, 54, of Smyrna as part of an ongoing investigation, said state police spokesman
Stephen McCausland. Oakfield is a town west of Houlton.

T he troopers tried to arrest Corneil on warrants charging him with assault, criminal threatening,
terrorizing, and reckless conduct related to an incident earlier in the week in Smyrna, according to
McCausland. Corneil threatened troopers with a handgun, according to Lt. Col. John E. Cote, deputy
chief of the state police. Sgt. Chad Fuller, a 20-year veteran of the state police, fired and struck
Corneil. Corneil's weapon was later determined to be a pellet gun that resembled a Beretta 9mm
semi-automatic pistol. T he incident was witnessed by several store customers.

Corneil was treated at a Houlton hospital for gunshot wounds, and later underwent surgery at a
Bangor hospital, where he was being treated Friday night, according to McCausland.

As is standard procedure in an officer-involved shooting, Fuller has been placed on administrative
leave while the incident is investigated by the Maine Attorney General's Office.

Staff Writer Ray Routhier contributed to this report.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.

 
Trooper shoots man during confrontation in - Associated Press State
Wire: Maine (ME) - May 4, 2018
May 4, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maine (ME)

OAKFIELD, Maine (AP) — Maine State Police say a man was wounded by a trooper while being
arrested in the town of Oakfield.

Officials say 54-year-old John Corneil
Friday morning. He was being treated at a hospital in Houlton.

John Corneil, of Smyrna, was shot during an armed confrontation late

Maine Public Safety Department spokesman Steve McCausland said a team of three troopers
went to a store to arrest Corneil. He said the trooper who discharged his gun, Sgt. Chad Fuller, has
been placed on administrative leave during the investigation.

T he Maine attorney general's office investigating the incident.

McCausland said Corneil was being arrested as part of an ongoing investigation but further details
weren't available. It was unclear if Corneil had a lawyer.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Man shot by troopers dies next day - Associated Press State Wire: Maine
(ME) - May 6, 2018
May 6, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Maine (ME)

OAKFIELD, Maine (AP) — A Smyrna man who was shot by a trooper during an arrest in the town of
Oakfield last week has died.

Officials say 54-year-old John Corneil
after a team of three troopers went to a store to arrest him.

John Corneil was shot during an armed confrontation late Friday morning

Maine Public Safety Department spokesman Steve McCausland said he died Saturday at Eastern
Maine Medical Center. An autopsy was being done Sunday.

T he Maine attorney general's office investigating the incident.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 


 
June 26--HONESDALE -- Three state troopers are on administrative leave after a standoff Monday morning in

Prompton ended with authorities shooting and killing a 36-year-old man. 

James A. Sorrentino, 40 Balsam Swamp Road, died at his home after shooting at state troopers who responded to

a report he fired a shotgun at his brother, Charles Sorrentino, and his mother, Patricia Sorrentino, about 2:15 a.m.,

state police and Wayne County District Attorney Patrick Robinson said. 

Robinson's office will determine if the shooting was justified after a joint investigation by his office and the state

Both Robinson and Capt. Sherman Shadle, commander of the Dunmore-based Troop R, characterized the state

police as showing "great restraint" initially, as James Sorrentino pointed "multiple weapons" at the state troopers

"There's no reason at this point to believe this was not justified," Robinson said. "I'm not saying it was, but I have

no reason to believe that it wasn't." 

State troopers opened fire about 7:15 a.m. once Sorrentino walked outside, pointed a gun at them and fired,

police. 

several times. 

Robinson said. 

Wayne County Coroner Edward Howell pronounced Sorrentino dead at the scene at 9:54 a.m. An autopsy is

scheduled for today. No troopers were hurt. 

Shadle declined to identify the troopers involved. Investigators will follow policy and wait 72 hours after the

shooting before they question the troopers involved. 

Authorities declined to say how many shots Sorrentino fired or how many times he had been shot. Robinson said a

full report on the shooting would be forthcoming after the investigation concludes. 

"We're in the beginning stages," Shadle said. "There's a lot of work that needs to be done." 

In an affidavit filed early Monday, state police wrote that Sorrentino had schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. He

had recently been hospitalized. The affidavit had been attached to a criminal complaint charging Sorrentino with

two counts each of attempted first-degree murder, terroristic threats, aggravated assault and simple assault. That

complaint was withdrawn after Sorrentino died. 

Charles Sorrentino told Cpl. Brian Rickard that James Sorrentino had been acting strangely since his release last

week from the hospital, according to the affidavit. 

Robinson said James Sorrentino refused to take his medication. 

James Sorrentino paced nervously through the home Sunday night, according to the affidavit. As his brother and

mother tried to calm him, he became aggressive, grabbed a steak knife and threatened to kill them. 

Charles and Patricia Sorrentino got into a car and drove to the end of the driveway to try and figure out their next

move. James Sorrentino appeared on the porch and shot at the car with a shotgun. Several of the pellets hit the

car so they sped off to a nearby firehouse and called 911. 

Numerous state troopers set up a perimeter around the house and tried to get Sorrentino to surrender. Charles

Sorrentino told investigators he had multiple rifles, including semiautomatic AR-15s, in the house with him. 

Mary Thomas, 70, who lives next to the Sorrentino property, said a state trooper tried to hail Sorrentino from her

property with a megaphone. 

"Come out of the house," the trooper yelled. "We do not want to hurt you." 

Her voice quieted, almost quivered. 

"I guess, apparently, he wasn't listening to them," Thomas said. 

Contact the writer: 

jkohut@timesshamrock.com; 

570-348-9144; 

@jkohutTT on Twitter 

CREDIT: By Joseph Kohut 
 
 


 
Aug. 09--State troopers were justified in shooting a Prompton man after he shot at them during a standoff in the

borough in June, Wayne County District Attorney Patrick Robinson said Wednesday. 

James Sorrentino, 37, 40 Balsam Swamp Road, died June 25 after a police standoff at his home. After about five

hours, Sorrentino fired a rifle at troopers, investigators said. Three troopers fired four shots at Sorrentino, one of

them striking him in the neck and killing him. 

Troopers responded to Sorrentino's home at about 2:15 a.m. on June 25 on a report of a domestic assault

involving weapons. 

District Attorney's Office. 

Sorrentino's brother, Charles, and mother, Patricia, tried to calm him after he started to act strangely and break

things in the house. Sorrentino grabbed a steak knife and said the whole family was going to die. 

Sorrentino had recently been hospitalized for bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, according to the Wayne County

Sorrentino's family fled from the home, got in a car and drove to the end of their driveway to try and figure out what

to do. Sorrentino grabbed a shotgun and fired at the car, peppering it with pellets. Charles and Patricia Sorrentino

then drove to a nearby firehouse and called 911. 

Troopers arrived and set up a perimeter around the home and, for several hours, tried to negotiate with Sorrentino

as he threw items from the house, screamed obscenities and walked around carrying weapons. The standoff

ended at about 7:15 a.m. , when Sorrentino walked on the front porch and loaded a magazine for an assault rifle.

Troopers commanded him to stop, but Sorrentino ultimately fired the rifle at police. Police returned fire and killed

Sorrentino. 

No troopers were injured during the incident. Robinson declined to identify the troopers involved in the shooting

during an interview Wednesday. 

Troopers seized 21 weapons from the home after the standoff. 

In a statement, Robinson said he reviewed a report from the state police and an independent one prepared by

Wayne County detectives in ruling the shooting justified. He acknowledged Sorrentino suffered from mental health

issues, but posed a threat to his family, neighbors and troopers during the standoff. State police acted

appropriately and showed restraint throughout the incident, he said. 

"I sympathize with the family of James A. Sorrentino," Robinson said, adding that the family was extremely

cooperative during the investigation. "This was obviously a terrible, but unavoidable, outcome." 

Contact the writer: cover@timesshamrock.com; 570-348-9100 x5363; @ClaytonOver on Twitter 

CREDIT: By Clayton Over 
 
 


Trooper honored with national award - Wichita - Wichita Falls Times
Record News (TX) - March 28, 2019 - page A6
March 28, 2019 | Wichita Falls Times Record News (TX) | Patrick Johnston | Page A6

A Texas Department of Public Safety trooper who serves the Wichita Falls area has been honored
as the International Association of Chiefs of Police's trooper of the year, according to a press
release.

T he IACP and Motorola Solutions recognize state troopers and provincial police each year "who
have demonstrated bravery, courage, leadership and professionalism."

Corporal Joshua Moer represented the southern region, and was one of four finalists honored
earlier this week at the IACP's annual Division Midyear meeting.

"Men and women in state and provincial police agencies know the situations they face can change
in an instant, yet they continue to put their lives on the line to help keep their communities safe,"
said Jim Mears, senior vice president, North America Market, Motorola Solutions.

"Motorola Solutions humbly recognizes the brave efforts of our four finalists and the sacrifices
made by all law enforcement."

Moer was announced as the winner earlier this week following the IACP's meeting.

On April 26, 2018, Anthony Lamar Carter
Oklahoma. A 911 call from Butts' boss gave a description of the possible vehicle.

Anthony Lamar Carter reportedly kidnapped Kaylea Renee Butts in Norman,

An alert was sent out to local law enforcement as far as the Texas border as police began
investigating the kidnapping.

Carter was stopped in Oklahoma, the release states, but he quickly sped away, prompting a multi-
jurisdictional pursuit.

Once Carter and Butts hit the Texas border, an officer from Burkburnett recognized the car – a red
Dodge Charger – as the possible suspect vehicle in the kidnapping.

A pursuit involving numerous law enforcement agencies around the Wichita Falls area ensued,
reaching speeds of nearly 150 miles per hour and lasting for about 35 miles.

Near the conclusion of the pursuit, the release states that Moer of the Texas Highway Patrol was
the lead unit.

As Carter's vehicle came to a stop after officers spiked the vehicle's tires, Butts exited the vehicle in
an attempt to escape. He immediately got out of the vehicle, chased and tackled her to the

ground, and began violently stabbing her with a large knife.

Moer discharged his duty pistol at Carter, briefly delaying the attack, the release stated.

DPS Trooper Aaron Clopton arrived at the scene to assist, and advanced with Moer toward Carter,
giving verbal commands for him to stop.

When Carter refused to comply and continued stabbing Butts, More and Clopton discharged their
firearms, "ultimately ending the suspect's attack."

Moer had discharged his duty pistol 11 times, striking Carter with each round. After determining
the suspect was no longer a threat, Moer ran over to Butts and started providing first aid to her.

Clopton ran back to his patrol car to retrieve his first aid kit and call for medical assistance.

Moer, Clopton and several other first responders provided first aid to the victim until emergency
medical personnel arrived and transported her to the hospital. Butts had 13 stab wounds and lost
about five pints of blood.

"Due to the quick and decisive actions of Corporal Moer to stop the suspect's assault on Ms. Butts
and the immediate first aid provided to her, Ms. Butts survived the aggravated assault," the
release stated. "Corporal Moer displayed leadership and courageousness, which saved the life of
Ms. Butts."

During a trip back to Wichita Falls to thank the troopers who saved her live, Butts and her parents
expressed eternal thanks and gratitude for their actions that fateful day.

T he troopers were quick to humbly accept the kind words and appreciation of the family while also
minimizing their roles, saying they'd just been doing their jobs and it wasn't anything anyone other
law enforcement officer would have done in the same situation.

"But, they did it. T hat's it," said Kelly Butts, Kaylea's mother. "T hey were her guardian angels."

© 2019 Journal Media Group

 
Stabbing suspect, victim identified - Oklahoma man - Wichita Falls
Times Record News (TX) - April 30, 2018 - page A7
April 30, 2018 | Wichita Falls Times Record News (TX) | Patrick Johnston | Page A7

A 22-year-old Oklahoma man was fatally shot by Texas Department of Public Safety troopers
after he reportedly stabbed his ex-girlfriend numerous times.

Anthony
Sgt. Dan Buesing, a DPS spokesperson, identified the Norman, Oklahoma, man as Anthony
Lamar Carter
Lamar Carter, who was pronounced dead at the scene off U.S. Highway 287 a few miles east of
Vernon.

Buesing also identified the woman who was reportedly kidnapped by Carter from her work in
Norman as 20-year-old Kaylea Renee Butts.

A GoFundMe page set up to help pay for Butts' medical expenses states that she was stabbed 13
times before troopers reportedly shot Carter.

According to previous news releases from DPS and the Norman Police Department:

Around 7:25 a.m. T hursday, Norman officers responded to a report of a domestic disturbance
that resulted in the kidnapping of an adult woman, now identified as Butts, in the 1200 block of
36th Avenue NW.

T hat information gained during the initial investigation led officers to believe that the suspect, now
identified as Carter, and Butts were headed towards T exas.

T he NPD provided information about Carter and his vehicle to law enforcement throughout
Oklahoma and T exas.

T hey were later notified that a Burkburnett police and other Texas law enforcement agencies were
in pursuit with the suspect vehicle, a red Dodge Charger.

Carter and Butts were reportedly known to one another and involved in some form of a domestic
relationship prior to the incident.

Based on early reports, area law enforcement deployed several spike strips to stop the Charger as
it fled through Wichita Falls before heading north down U.S. Highway 287 toward Vernon. A spike
strip was eventually successful in bringing the vehicle to a stop.

"T he vehicle lost control and ended up in the barrow ditch," said Wichita County Sheriff David Duke
on T hursday. "One of our deputy's vehicles was up there – actually, he was cutting in there to get
the vehicle before they (the suspect and victim) got out of the car."

As the Wichita County deputy approached with his firearm drawn, Butts reportedly got out of the
Charger and ran toward approaching state troopers who were pulling up to the scene.

At that point, Duke said Carter got out of the Charger also, tackled Butts to the ground and began
stabbing her with a "large knife."

DPS troopers then engaged with Carter in response to him stabbing Butts. Around 9:40 a.m.,
Carter was fatally shot by state troopers.

Butts was taken to Wilbarger General Hospital in Vernon for treatment, and later airlifted to OU
Medical Center in Norman, Oklahoma, with what was described as "serious injuries." No official
update on her condition was available as of 5 p.m. Sunday.

T he Texas Rangers are investigating the incident. More information will be released as it is
available.

© 2018 Journal Media Group

 
Kidnapping victim thanks her 'angels' - DPS - Wichita Falls Times
Record News (TX) - May 28, 2018 - page A9
May 28, 2018 | Wichita Falls Times Record News (TX) | Patrick Johnston | Page A9

"I don't know why

more people wouldn't

want to thank them

for things they do."

Kelly Butts

Kaylea Butts' mother

It was a trip Kaylea Butts' mother, Kelly, didn't think she'd be able to make, if she didn't already
know the positive outcome of the story that connected her daughter to the Wichita Falls area.

On April 26, 2018 – a day forever etched in their hearts and memories, Kaylea, 20, of Norman, was
kidnapped by her on-and-off boyfriend, 22-year-old Anthony Lamar Carter
Oklahoma.

Anthony Lamar Carter, of Oklahoma City,

After being snatched from her work at Walden Cleaners in Norman around 7:25 a.m., Kaylea would
end up on a three-hour drive that will forever impact her life.

Once they hit the Texas border, an officer from Burkburnett recognized the car – a red Dodge
Charger – as the possible suspect vehicle in the kidnapping.

A pursuit involving numerous law enforcement agencies around the Wichita Falls area ensued,
reaching speeds of nearly 150 miles per hour.

"I've been excited about this trip, I really have," Kelly said. "I guess for me, it is – I've had to live
through this vision in her head that has been a vision in my head, and I'm sure are two very
different things."

Kaylea – along with her father, Stephen, and Kelly – made the drive to Wichita Falls Saturday to
personally thank the Texas Department of Public Safety troopers who helped save her life.

After spending a few hours with the troopers, the family stopped to finally eat lunch before making
the drive over to Vernon to retrace the steps that forever altered Kaylea's life, as well as thank the
nurses and staff at Wilbarger General Hospital who began her treatment.

"Seeing gives me closure," Kelly said of the trip. "I don't know that I would have been able to see it
if I didn't what the outcome was already."

As the family first arrived to the DPS office in Wichita Falls, Kaylea's nerves began to get the best
of her.

"I'm about to throw up," she said as she got out of the family's vehicle.

She said she had been nervous for this moment for some time, but she too was looking forward
to the healing and closure it would likely bring.

As they walked inside the building and were led into a room, tears began flowing as three troopers
anxiously awaited their arrival.

T he Butts family began immediately hugging the troopers, unsure of what to say in order to
properly thank them.

T he troopers were quick to humbly accept the kind words and appreciation of the family while also
minimizing their roles, saying they'd just been doing their jobs and it wasn't anything anyone other
law enforcement officer would have done in the same situation.

"But, they did it. T hat's it," Kelly said. "T hey were her guardian angels."

Seconds after engaging Carter to prevent him from stabbing Kaylea more, the troopers
immediately transitioned to treating her wounds.

Even with their quick reactions, Kaylea lost nearly 5 pints of blood that day.

"T hey didn't miss a beat. I watched cop shows a lot, but this is so surreal," Kelly said. "I never
thought I'd be in the middle of one."

T he troopers' names who helped Kaylea that day are being withheld by the Times Record News, as
they have not been publicly released.

While the Wilbarger County Grand Jury has declined to indict them on any criminal charges, the
T exas Rangers internal investigation was still not complete as of Saturday.

For Kelly, this trip was a no-brainer and something she immediately began planning.

For the troopers though, it was a rare circumstance for them.

Despite nearly three decades of experience between the three of them, they said they had never
experienced a reunion with a victim they had saved.

"I guess it puzzles me," Kelly said. "T hat was the first thing I wanted to do – thank them
personally."

While being something none of them had ever been asked to do, the troopers were all more than
happy to accept and find a way to make it happen.

"I don't know why more people wouldn't want to thank them for things they do. Every day," Kelly
said.

"T his was an experience for sure," Kaylea said.

"T his was a special circumstance for us, because it involved us. But, how do you thank someone
for something like that," asked Kelly, who began to tear up. "I don't even know how to thank them
other than just giving them a big hug and being here to listen to their side of the story."

T he family and troopers were ushered into an interview room to talk privately for nearly an hour.

"I enjoyed that – a lot," Kaylea said. "It was nice getting to meet them, getting to thank them and
let them know they are appreciated."

As they emerged, the Butts family, as well as the DPS family, had each gained three new members.

"I feel like we have new friends out of this," Kelly said. "We have new family."

While her wounds are beginning to physically heal, leaving behind scars Kaylea hoped to cover with
a tattoo one day, she said the meeting helped give her a start to closure on the incident that she'd
been seeking.

"It gave me a little bit of closure. Not the greatest, but enough to not be upset with his parents,"
said Kaylea, referring to her boyfriend's family.

Shortly after the incident, she had requested to go to Carter's funeral, but the family had asked
that she stay away, despite her feeling like she needed it as a part of her healing process.

"Obviously, you don't want someone to come to the funeral that soon, but I feel like that I could
have closure if I could have gone, even staying far away," she said. "But this was good enough for
me to get enough closure."

Sharing her story from inside with the troopers while also learning what was going through their
minds seemed to help Kaylea breathe a little easier than when she first arrived at the DPS office in
Wichita Falls.

It also seemed to help ease the troopers who were unsure of what to expect from the meeting.

During the late lunch between the meetings with the troopers and the Vernon medical staff, Kaylea
talked about her plans for her scars.

"I want to make them into a butterfly," she said. "T his one on my arm, at least. Oh, and a tan to
help cover up some of them."

It will take awhile for the healing – physical, mental and emotional – to be complete, but Saturday
was a step in the right direction, Kelly said.

"T hings are going to be different for awhile," she said. "Obviously, she can't do certain things for
herself. Simple things that you take for granted and do any other time is a struggle for her.

"But, she's a fighter, most definitely. She hasn't let this hold her back in any way."

"I don't know why

more people wouldn't

want to thank them

for things they do."

Kelly Butts

Kaylea Butts' mother

© 2018 Journal Media Group

 
Kidnap victim talks about boyfriend - Wichita Falls Times Record News
(TX) - May 1, 2018 - page A3
May 1, 2018 | Wichita Falls Times Record News (TX) | Patrick Johnston | Page A3

Never did Kaylea Butts imagine something she thought was a practical joke by her manager would
turn into a high-speed chase in North Texas and end with her being stabbed 13 times and her
boyfriend being fatally shot by state troopers.

T he 20-year-old Norman, Oklahoma, woman said she'd just gotten to one of her two jobs –
Walden Cleaners, 1211 36th Ave. NW in Norman – around 7:25 a.m. on April 26.

Suddenly, she felt someone come up behind her. At first, she figured it was her manager joking
around with her.

Based on a 911 emergency call made by her manager, it clearly was anything but a joke.

As Kaylea arrived, the manager reportedly heard the kidnapping incident begin outside her
business, as she was completing the morning bank deposit.

"I heard a little bit of kind of a commotion or screaming, but I didn't think anything of it," the
manager told the Norman police dispatch. "She never came inside. I just went out there to get her
out of her car."

She went to Kaylea's vehicle, a silver Toyota SUV. Her purse was in her car, but Kaylea was
nowhere to be found.

"I'm kind of a little nervous about this," the manager told Norman dispatch.

Anthony Lamar Carter, who Kaylea had been in a two-year relationship with, had come up behind
Anthony Lamar Carter
her and told her that he had something to show her, Kaylea told the Times Record News in a
phone interview Monday from her OU Medical Center hospital bed.

She said he shoved her in to his vehicle – a red Dodge Charger – and drove away.

Kaylea said Monday she's thankful that the manager called police to report the incident.

"I probably wouldn't be here today" if she hadn't called, Kaylea said. However, Kaylea said
"everything seemed fine" as they began driving.

She'd been trying to leave the relationship, which she described as "not healthy."

T he pair had been having legal issues surrounding domestic violence, but Kaylea said she wasn't
sure if any criminal charges had ever been filed against Carter.

According to a records check, Carter only had one previous criminal offense – a traffic violation for
going 94 miles per hour in a 70 mph zone on June 23, 2015.

Kaylea said she didn't realize just how wrong everything was that day until they got near the T exas-
Oklahoma border.

"He said I basically have killed him inside," she said. "He didn't want to live anymore."

At that point, Kaylea got a glimpse at Carter's phone, which showed they wouldn't arrive to their
destination until after 1 p.m. despite leaving Norman around 7:30 a.m.

Kaylea said she thinks they were headed toward the Newcastle area, but she wasn't certain where
he was trying to take her. She knew that he was from Moore, Oklahoma.

When Burkburnett police spotted the vehicle shortly after it crossed into T exas, Kaylea said she
became nauseous and asked to get out of the vehicle.

Rather than stopping, Carter led law enforcement on a high-speed chase across two North T exas
counties. He also demanded Kaylea put her seat belt back on when she begged to be let out of the
vehicle.

"I didn't want to be involved in a high-speed chase," Kaylea said.

Eventually, after a spike strip deflated his tires enough, Carter pulled the vehicle over a few miles
east of Vernon. Kaylea said she took the chance to run for assistance toward the pursuing T exas
Department of Public Safety troopers.

As she fled toward the seemingly safety of law enforcement, she was tackled by Carter, who
reportedly began stabbing her with a large knife.

Kaylea said Monday that she has 13 stab wounds – including in her thigh; torso; head; and her right
arm, which was heavily bandaged in a Facebook Live video she posted around 11 a.m. Sunday from
her hospital bed to update people on her condition.

"I walked today," Kaylea said in the live video. "T hank you for praying for me – and keeping me in
your thoughts."

Kaylea said Monday that she can still recall the moment she heard the shots that ultimately might
have saved her life.

"I just kind of looked back, and he had his eyes open staring at me," Kaylea said.

Carter was pronounced dead at the scene a few miles east of Vernon.

Kaylea was rushed to Wilbarger General Hospital in Vernon for initial treatment, and later airlifted
to the OU Medical Center with what was described as "serious injuries."

Her mother, Kelly Butts, said Kaylea has made "tremendous progress" in the past four days.

Kelly also said that Kaylea's doctor in Vernon has kept up with the family, including via video calls, to
see how she is healing, calling the Vernon hospital staff "very sweet people."

Despite everything she's been through, Kaylea said she still loves and misses Carter.

"I miss my boyfriend, but he was a bad person," Kaylea said in the Facebook Live video, beginning
to tear up. "But, I still miss him and I love him. I want his family to know that I didn't mean for this
to happen, because I know it hurts."

In a comment tagging Carter's parents, Kaylea apologizes to his family for what happened.

"I love you guys and I'm so so sorry... You've got no idea how hurt I feel," the comment stated. "I
miss you guys and hope to see you guys soon. I want to make it to Lamar's funeral if you guys are
doing that. Hope to hear from you guys soon."

She said Monday that she still hasn't heard from Carter's family, but she does still hope to go to his
funeral.

Kelly asked for everyone to continue praying for her daughter, who she said will need lots of
emotional healing in addition to recovery from her physical wounds.

T he family feels "very blessed" that everything turned out the way it did, because Kelly said it "could
have gone very differently" if the manager hadn't called or police hadn't seen Carter.

For those wishing to donate to help with Butts' medical expenses, the family has set up a
GoFundMe page at https://www.gofundme.com/kayleas -medical-bills.

© 2018 Journal Media Group

 
Grand jury doesn't charge troopers - They shot man - Wichita Falls
Times Record News (TX) - May 25, 2018 - page A3
May 25, 2018 | Wichita Falls Times Record News (TX) | Linda Stewart | Page A3

A Wilbarger County Grand Jury found no fault with two Texas Department of Public Safety troopers
that shot and killed Anthony Lamar Carter
Butts, outside of Vernon, T exas, on April 26, 2018.

Anthony Lamar Carter as he was in the act of stabbing his girlfriend, Kaylea

According to 46th Judicial District Attorney Staley Heatly, the troopers' actions saved the life of
Kaylea Butts.

"Without a doubt these troopers saved Kaylea's life," Heatly said. "If they had arrived at the scene
even a few seconds later, she wouldn't have made it out alive.

"T his was a domestic violence case, plain and simple. Kaylea was trying to leave the relationship
with Carter and he did not want to let her go. Statistics show that women in abusive relationships
are in the most danger when they are trying to leave their abuser. T hat is exactly what happened in
this case."

Around 7:25 a.m. on April 26, law enforcement in Norman, Oklahoma, received a report of a
possible kidnapping involving Carter, 22, and his 20-year-old girlfriend, Butts.

T he reporting person gave a description of Carter and the vehicle that he was driving.

Around 8:30 a.m., police in Burkburnett were notified that the victim and Carter were possibly
traveling to T exas.

A short time later, a Burkburnett police officer spotted the suspect vehicle, a red Dodge Charger,
being driven through the city. Carter refused to stop for police and eventually turned on to U.S.
Highway 287 North.

Multiple law enforcement agencies were involved in the pursuit that reached speeds in excess of
150 miles per hour.

DPS Trooper Curtis West successfully deployed spikes east of Vernon on U.S. Highway 287,
disabling Carter's vehicle and causing it to stop on the shoulder.

As the car came to a rest, Butts jumped out and started running towards police. Carter tackled her
and began stabbing her repeatedly with a steak knife as the DPS troopers arrived on the scene.

T he troopers got out of their cars and engaged Carter, shooting him several times while he was in
the act of stabbing the victim.

"T he troopers had to make a quick decision," Heatly said. "It was either his life or hers."

Heatly said the victim was stabbed a total of thirteen times all over her body. He credited the same
DPS troopers that shot Carter with providing quick and effective first aid to Butts until Vernon EMS
arrived at the scene to transport her to Wilbarger General Hospital.

"T hese officers transitioned within a matter of seconds from engaging Carter to providing critical
first aid for Kaylea," Heatly said. "T he troopers held Kaylea's hand, comforted her, and bandaged
her wounds while awaiting for emergency medical services."

Intimate partner violence is a significant problem across the United States and in T exas.

Statistics show that more than one in three Texas women has been a victim of family violence.

Rates of family violence have increased significantly in the last few years, according to T exas
Department of Public Safety statistics.

More than half the country's mass shootings between 2009 and 2016, in which at least four people
were killed with a gun, were related to domestic or family violence, according to a study by
Everytown for Gun Safety, a nonprofit that focuses on firearm regulation.

T he case was investigated by Texas Ranger Jake Weaver.

As a policy matter, the case was reviewed by a grand jury to determine whether the troopers'
actions were appropriate. T he Wilbarger County grand jury cleared the troopers of any possible
wrongdoing in the shooting.

© 2018 Journal Media Group

 


Person killed in officer-involved shooting - Associated Press State Wire:
Montana (MT) - November 19, 2018
November 19, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Montana (MT)

MISSOULA, Mont. (AP) — Authorities have identified the person who was killed in an officer-
involved shooting in Missoula over the weekend.

Missoula County Undersheriff Rich Maricelli said Monday that 49-year-old Jenessa Cooper
after officers responded to reports of a disturbance in a home on Sunday.

Jenessa Cooper died

T he Missoulian reports that responding officers found a person with a gun and that shots were
fired. No officers were injured.

A sheriff's office statement had no additional details.

Missoula Police Department spokesman Travis Welsh previously said he could not say who fired
the shot that killed the person. Welsh said there was no active threat to the public.

Justin Owens, who lives in an apartment building next door, told the newspaper he thought he
heard four shots.

State authorities are investigating the shooting.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Montana officer cleared by jury in November - Associated Press State
Wire: Montana (MT) - March 9, 2019
March 9, 2019 | Associated Press State Wire: Montana (MT)

MISSOULA, Mont. (AP) — A Montana jury has exonerated a Missoula police officer who shot and
killed an armed 49-year-old woman during a confrontation last year.

T he Missoulian reports that the jury needed little time Friday to find that the actions of Officer
Joseph Burger were justified.

T estimony and evidence presented to the seven-person jury at the coroner's inquest showed
Jenessa Cooper had swung into aggression when she first attacked her roommates.
Jenessa Cooper

Burger testified that he followed his training when he responded to the house last Nov. 18 and
shouted commands at Cooper to drop her .45-caliber handgun. He says he fired seven rounds at
her as she raised her pistol toward him.

Cooper died from a single gunshot wound to the head.

___

Information from: Missoulian, http://www.missoulian.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2019 All rights reserved.

 
Woman killed in Missoula officer-involved shooting - Billings Gazette,
The (MT) - December 29, 2018
December 29, 2018 | Billings Gazette, The (MT) | SEABORN LARSON seaborn.larson@missoulian.com

Jenessa Cooper died in what appears to be a "suicide by cop," a person living at

T he day after Jenessa Cooper
Cooper's home told the Missoulian the situation was a severe misunderstanding, and that Cooper
was deep in grief from the death of a loved one.

Cooper, a transgender woman, was heartbroken at the sudden and unexpected death of her ex-
wife, Diane Abrams, according to friends who agreed to speak with the Missoulian. When they
divorced in 2012, Cooper was living by a different name, Thomas Walker Abrams. But this is her
story, not his.

Cooper's four friends described the 49-year-old as someone who genuinely cared for others, but
also as someone who suffered from untreated depression. Friends in the last month have
mourned her death, but none blamed Missoula law enforcement for the consequences of the
events on Blaine Street on Nov. 18.

After her death, a "Vote Republican" sign could be seen in Cooper's yard. Many of her friends
described her as very much a proponent of civil liberties.

"She was a red-blooded American," Savannah Anderson said.

Anderson met Cooper about five years ago through a personal ad Cooper had posted to Craigslist.
"Cross-dressing man seeks female to do T om Boy things," Anderson recalled.

Anderson typically browsed the personal section for some light entertainment, not to actually
connect with someone, she said. But this time she felt a pull to the post, if not a whiff of a new
friendship, so she responded. Before long they were getting under the hoods of cars together,
where Cooper would sometimes hint about issues with gender identity, Anderson said.

Cooper identified as male then, but Anderson said she soon saw through that and understood
what Cooper was really asking when she talked about gender.

"It was right around then that she began to realize what she really knew about herself," Anderson
said of Cooper.

So under the hood of one of those cars they worked on, Anderson gave Cooper a "pep talk,"
pushing her to shine some light on the person she knew she was, instead of hiding beneath the
persona Cooper thought she was supposed to be. By the same time next week, Anderson said
Cooper had begun hormone treatment to begin the transition process.

It seemed to her friends to be something of an oxymoron: a transgender woman who held deeply

conservative beliefs, Anita Green told the Missoulian.

"Jenessa very much liked her Second Amendment," Green said. "She was proud of the fact that she
was able to carry a gun. She didn't apologize for that."

About a year after beginning her hormone therapy to transition, Cooper met Green at a trans
support group. While Cooper was quiet, Green was outgoing. Cooper stood solidly by her politics —
the antithesis of Green's.

"I'm an extrovert and I love meeting new people," Green said. "It doesn't matter if I disagree with
people, I still want to get to know them. I don't know why Jenessa was receptive. It's hard to
understand why we gravitated towards each other, but we did."

T he philosophical opposites made quite a team when Cooper agreed to serve as campaign
manager for Green's 2015 progressive campaign for Missoula City Council. T hey ran on "wet"
homeless shelters and mandating that developers include affordable or market-rate housing when
starting a project, according to a 2015 article in the Montana Kaimin.

Cooper's presence on the campaign trail was meaningful to Green.

"I ran in a four-way race and not everybody who was running was very kind," Green said.
"Campaigns can be kind of cutthroat and Jenessa was there to help me through some of that."

Green's bid for city office was unsuccessful. In the Kaimin article, Cooper weighed in on why she
thought they couldn't wrangle the votes to make it out of the primary.

"I think it was mostly being young and relatively unknown," Cooper told the University of Montana's
student newspaper. "But she got her name out there."

Green did not make another run at office and moved to Oregon not long after. She and Cooper
began to drift away from each other, the toll distance often takes on tight friendships. But they still
stayed in touch from time to time; Cooper called her after the mid-term elections last month,
when Democrats won the majority of seats in the U.S. House.

"She called and she said, 'I wanted to congratulate you on your win,'" Green recalled. "She was
being a little bit snarky but it was in good fun. We had that kind of relationship."

If her friendship with Green represents Cooper's confidence in the political arena, Bri Sawyer's
relationship with Cooper represented the vulnerability she felt in fully presenting as a woman.

"When I first met Jen she didn't tell me she was trans, but she kind of hinted here and there, and
asked what I thought about it," Sawyer said.

Like Anderson, Sawyer also met Cooper through a Craigslist ad: "Looking for open-minded friends."
Sawyer lived in Lewistown while Cooper was living in Missoula, but their friendship still blossomed to
span of the 275 miles between them. Maybe it was the distance that gave Cooper enough security
to dress as a woman when she visited, but Sawyer said it never lasted long.

"When we first started meeting, she was really scared to wear her drag," Sawyer told the
Missoulian in a phone interview. "She was definitely an ally, and she'd speak up, but she would be
very shy about coming out of the closet, herself."

When Cooper would visit Sawyer in Lewistown, they would try to get out once in a while, but
ultimately ended up staying in to chat, Sawyer said. Cooper might show up at Sawyer's house in a
little bit of makeup, but Sawyer said even that shook Cooper's confidence.

"We had a few people who she encountered who were excruciatingly homophobic," Sawyer said.
"Usually she'd come to see me and have a little bit of makeup on. But she'd — the fear, you could
see it in her eyes. It was like a deer in the headlights. T hat was hard for me to watch, too, because
that was stopping her from being able to fully transition."

Sawyer, who is pansexual, had gone through this timid phase long ago, she said, and was eager to
help Cooper emerge. T hey even planned to do a few drag shows, Sawyer said, which would have
been far outside Cooper's comfort range.

But as years went on, the distance seemed to strain the relationship and visits and messages
became less frequent. When she did catch up with Cooper, Sawyer said she noticed Cooper was
becoming more and more confident.

Self confidence aside, Cooper was an advocate for her friends, and generous in helping them
through their own trials. Sawyer said more than once Cooper sent her money when she was
struggling to pay her bills.

"She gave until it hurt," Sawyer said. "'Pay it forward,' she told me."

Green said she, too, was amid hard financial times when Cooper reached out to help bridge the gap
of Green's needs.

"She welcomed me over and gave me just a little money for food and she would oftentimes have
me over and we would eat together," Green said. "She really was somebody who really cared for
her friends and would do so much to make sure her friends were OK. She often times put others
before herself."

Anderson said that meant Cooper couldn't afford to go to counseling or purchase medication for
her own depression — something Anderson, who was close to Cooper, said she didn't talk about.

"A lot of people suffer in silence," Anderson said.

Sawyer was well aware of Cooper's fight with depression, which sometimes became
overwhelming.

"I know the last time we talked she was feeling like she was alone," Sawyer said. "T hat's something
that really sucks."

On Saturday, Nov. 18, Cooper was rocked by the death of Diane Abrams, who Anderson said died
of a sudden brain aneurysm at 56. Cooper had married Diane in the late 1990s. Diane was a
mother to two daughters. In her obituary, she mentions her marriage to Thomas Abrams and also
acknowledges Cooper as a "dear companion."

Anderson last spoke with Cooper around 11 p.m. the night before. Cooper told Anderson Abrams
had been taken off life support, Anderson said.

Anderson said Cooper sounded like she would be OK, but now suspects Cooper may have suffered
some sort of break that led her to reportedly threaten someone with her gun. If Cooper was
supposed to be the strong one, no one is immune from a devastating loss, Anderson said.

"T here's no 'supposed to' in grief," she said.

What happens next is told in a search warrant application for Cooper's home following the
shooting that resulted in her death. Responding to reports of someone being threatened with a
gun at a home on Blaine Street, a police officer positioned himself behind a pickup, Cooper's. T he
caller had also reported Cooper was planning to commit a "suicide by cop."

T he search warrant application states the front door to the home opened as Cooper emerged,
brandishing a firearm toward Officer Joseph Burger, who opened fire.

Cooper's firearm and a casing were found next to her body; it's still unclear if she fired on Burger
or herself.

Authorities are still investigating the officer-involved shooting. Burger has been placed on
administrative leave pending the investigation's outcome. Cooper's Facebook page has been taken
down. Her "Vote Republican" sign remains in the yard on Blaine Street.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Billing s Gazette

 
Justified: Jury needs little time in deciding - Missoulian (Missoula, MT) -
March 8, 2019
March 8, 2019 | Missoulian (Missoula, MT) | Seaborn Larson

T he jury needed little time on Friday to find an officer-involved shooting that left one person dead
near the Memorial Rose Garden in November was justified.

T estimony and evidence presented to the seven-person jury at the coroner's inquest showed
Jenessa Cooper
Jenessa Cooper, 49, had swung into aggression and depression when she first attacked her
roommates.

Missoula patrol Officer Joseph Burger testified Friday that he followed his training when he
responded to the house on Blaine Street, shouted commands at Cooper to drop her .45-caliber
handgun, and fired seven rounds at her as she raised her pistol toward him.

Cooper was killed by a single gunshot wound to the head, state Medical Examiner Sunil Prashar
testified Friday.

Missoula Chief Deputy County Attorney Jason Marks opened the hearing by telling the jury Friday's
testimony would "unequivocally" show a bullet from the officer's gun killed Cooper. Agent Jeff
Vittatoe of the state Justice Department's Division of Criminal Investigation investigated the
matter to preserve the case's impartiality.

"Based upon the evidence collected and interviews at the scene, I'm clearly convinced Officer
Burger was faced with an imminent threat," Vittatoe said.

***

Police were called to the home on Blaine Street that Sunday morning for reports of a woman
wielding a firearm inside the house. T he first to testify Friday, Cooper's roommate Harlan Quinn,
called police as another roommate, Saraphinn Herbert, was trying to wrestle the firearm away
from Cooper.

Quinn testified Friday that he and Cooper had never gotten along, particularly because Herbert,
Quinn's ex-girlfriend, had become romantically involved with Cooper. He said disagreements
among the roommates had escalated a number of times before, although Cooper, who regularly
openly carried a M1911 .45-caliber handgun, had never threatened him with a gun before.

Roommates who testified Friday said Cooper's ex-wife, Diane Abrams, had abruptly fallen into a
coma and died shortly afterward, leaving Cooper — already suffering from untreated depression
— struck with grief. Before threatening Quinn with a gun, Cooper began talking about taking her
own life, Quinn said.

Quinn and Herbert tried standing their ground as Cooper grew more and more aggressive, at one
point even taking the gun away from her. When Cooper regained the firearm, Quinn called the
police.

A third roommate, John Hammen, said he slept through the entire ordeal. In testimony on Friday,
he said he had worked until 4 a.m., gone to sleep and woke up to find police knocking on his
basement bedroom door asking him to clear the house.

However he told the jury that the night before, he had come home to find Cooper "the most
distressed I had ever seen her" in light of Abrams' rapidly deteriorating condition. He just listened
and tried consoling her, he said, before returning to work for a few hours.

"T hat was the last I saw of Jen," he said.

Herbert was unable to testify Friday, so prosecutors played the video-recorded interview that took
place after the shooting. In the video, Herbert said she had met Cooper approximately four years
earlier. She told Detectives Mick McCarthy and Connie Brueckner they dated for some time,
mentioning a period where they shared a methamphetamine habit, and remained roommates
even after they broke up.

She also spoke of past altercations and incidents where Cooper shared suicidal thoughts.

"Usually, the only reason she doesn't 'opt out,' her words for it, is so she can stick around and help
me," Herbert said on the video. "She talked about getting the cops riled up and taking her out
because she doesn't have the willpower to do it herself."

Herbert told the detectives that Cooper said similar things on Nov. 18, 2018, as police were arriving
on scene. Cooper had already fired one round into the ground. Herbert said she could see the
flashing red and blue lights starting to come through the windows.

"T he last thing she said to me today was 'Suicide by cops,'" Herbert said in her interview with
detectives.

***

Burger was headed toward a non-emergency call in the South Hills when dispatch alerted patrol
units to Cooper's house. T he dash camera footage from Burger's vehicle, aired for the jury on
Friday, showed Burger was the first to arrive in the area. He had drawn his weapon by the time he
walked across the camera's view, moving toward the house, behind one car and approaching the
house before he fell back to stand behind a white pickup — Cooper's.

He had heard screams as he approached the home, and as he was closing in on the house he saw
the front door was open, with Cooper standing in the doorway.

"First thing I noticed, they had a firearm in their right hand, down to their side," he testified on
Friday. "T hey raised the gun and pointed it directly at me."

Burger could be heard on the video shouting at Cooper to drop her weapon as he falls back to the
white pickup. A breath of a moment passed before Burger fired off seven rounds. A number of
other officers at this point entered the frame and began approaching the house near the front
door.

"It's a quick situation," Burger said on the stand Friday. "My intention was to neutralize the threat,
at that point the threat is the gun that's pointed at me."

T hose who spoke previously with the Missoulian about Cooper's life said she was generous and
caring; sometimes giving her friends food and money when she had little for herself. As a
transgender woman, Cooper had grown close in the transgender community in Missoula and
beyond, even serving as campaign manager for Anita Green's unsuccessful run to become the first
transgender City Council member. But Cooper had long battled depression, those friends said, and
Abrams' death had caused those feelings to bubble over.

Quinn and Herbert both said Cooper's state was further complicated by taking an excessive
amount of Valium to cope with Abrams' death. Prashar, the medical examiner, later testified there
were no prescription drugs found in her system during the autopsy.

T he jury took less than 20 minutes to issue its verdict. T here was a small applause from the law
enforcement officers who came to support Burger, who has been with the police department
since late 2015.

Copyrig ht (c) 2019 Missoulian

 
Missoula Police Department releases name of - Billings Gazette, The
(MT) - November 28, 2018
November 28, 2018 | Billings Gazette, The (MT) | SEABORN LARSON seaborn.larson@missoulian.com

Missoula police on Wednesday released the name of an officer involved in a shooting on Blaine
Street earlier this month that left one person dead.

Officer Joseph Burger has been placed on administrative leave with pay, in accordance with
department policy, according to the release.

T he department is conducting its own internal investigation as the Department of Justice's Division
of Criminal Investigation completes the official probe.

Missoula police responded to reports of a gun firing inside a home on the 600 block of Blaine
Street on Nov. 18 at about 8:30 a.m. When they arrived at the home, they encountered Jenessa
Jenessa
Cooper, 49, who was armed, according to police.
Cooper

T he release from police on the day of the incident states "shots were fired." While no officers were
injured, Cooper died at the scene.

John Barnes, a spokesman for the Department of Justice, said Wednesday that DCI had no updates
to provide on the investigation.

Burger is a 2016 graduate of the Montana Law Enforcement Academy. T he MPD release states
he will have been with the Missoula department for three years next month.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Billing s Gazette

 

 
MISSOULA, Mont. (AP) - Court records show an officer-involved shooting in Missoula may have been a "suicide by

The Missoulian reports Jenessa Cooper was killed Nov. 18 in an encounter with police at her home. Cooper was

found with one gunshot wound to the head, and an expended .45-caliber cartridge was located nearby.  

However, records filed by the Montana Department of Justice's Division of Criminal Investigation say a search

warrant states "it is unknown at this time if the suspect died as a result of Officer (Joseph) Burger shooting at

(Cooper) or by a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head."  

Two of Cooper's friends who spoke with the Missoulian about Cooper's life prior to the search warrant's filing say

they suspect the incident may have been a "suicide by cop."  

Officer Burger is on administrative leave pending the outcome of ' investigation.  

 

2018.
 
 

cop."  

___  

Information from: Missoulian, http://www.missoulian.com  

Credit: By DAVID BAUDER, AP Media Writer 
 
 
