Fayetteville police have identified the officer - Fayetteville Observer,
The (NC) - July 6, 2018 - page A4
July 6, 2018 | Fayetteville Observer, The (NC) | Greg Barnes Staff writer | Article | Page A4

Fayetteville police have identified the officer who fatally shot a man Tuesday while he held a knife
to his pregnant girlfriend.

T he officer, Sgt. Charles Cochran, 45, has been with the Fayetteville Police Department since
November 2003. Cochran has been placed on administrative duty while the State Bureau of
Investigation looks into the shooting. Administrative duty is standard procedure whenever police
are involved in shootings. Cochran is assigned to the Cross Creek District.

Police say officers responding to a 911 call from Stephanie Williams, 34, forced their way into her
apartment Tuesday and found Lemuel B unn
his arm around the neck of his bleeding girlfriend. Police say Bunn was shot after repeatedly
refusing orders from police.

Lemuel B unn, 40, of Roanoke Rapids holding a knife and wrapping

Sgt. Shawn Strepay, a police spokesman, said Williams and her unborn child were in good condition
T hursday afternoon, an upgrade from earlier reports of stable.

Much of what happened immediately before the shooting was captured on an emotional, 22-
minute 911 recording. T he recording ends after police force their way into Williams’ home in
T reetop Garden Apartments on Greenleaf Drive, off Raeford Road near Skibo Road.

“I’ve been stabbed,’’ Williams tells the dispatcher at the beginning of the audio recording, around
9:08 a.m. T uesday.

Williams moans softly as she tells the dispatcher that the stab wound is on her left side and that
her boyfriend is in another area of the apartment.

T he dispatcher instructs Williams on how to reduce the bleeding and continually tells her to keep
talking until help arrives.

Williams tells the dispatcher that her boyfriend has been holding her at knifepoint in her bedroom
since around 7 or 8 p.m. Monday.

She describes the weapon as a kitchen knife.

“I have help on the way. T hey will be there as soon as they can. T hey just have to come in safely,”
the dispatcher assures Williams.

Williams begins to moan more frequently but seems to remain calm. She tells the dispatcher that
her boyfriend has come back into the bedroom.

“He said he is going to kill me and him.”

“Does he have a weapon on him right now?” the dispatcher asks.

“Yes Ma’am.”

“What kind?”

“Just the knife.”

A loud knocking sound can be heard.

Williams tells the dispatcher that her boyfriend did not go to answer the door.

“Is he going to open the door?” the dispatcher asks.

“No.”

Williams can be heard starting to cry.

“Why are you crying?” the dispatcher asks.

“I’m just scared.”

T he audio tape captures another loud knocking sound.

Williams gives the dispatcher directions to the bedroom she is being held in. T he boyfriend hasn’t
said anything that is audible.

Police enter and tell the man to drop the knife.

Williams cries hysterically as the 911 recording comes to an end before a shot is heard.

Strepay, the police spokesman, said Cochran was the only officer to fire at Bunn, who was struck
by the only round fired.

Police Chief Gina Hawkins spoke about the shooting at a news conference T uesday.

“T here is nothing happening right now as far as disciplinary action,” Hawkins said. “Our response
was on-point, was definitely on-point.”

Strepay said police have not determined a motive for the attack. He said he didn’t have information
on whether Bunn was the father of the unborn child.

Attempts to reach relatives of Williams and Bunn were unsuccessful.

Bunn was convicted in 1994 of felony breaking and entering and larceny, state prison records
show.

He was sentenced to a maximum of 10 years in prison.

He was convicted again in 1998 of being a felon in possession of a firearm.

He also had been convicted of drug crimes.

Staff writer Greg Barnes can be reached at gbarnes@fayobserver.com or 910-486-3525.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Fayetteville (N.C.) Observer

 