
 
A Midlothian police officer who fatally shot security guard Jemel Roberson has been subjected to death threats,

with police patrols assigned to his house, according to the village.  

The disclosure came in a Dec. 13 letter from the village to the state attorney general's office in response to a Daily

Southtown request under the state's Freedom of Information Act for information about the officer. 

Roberson was shot in the early morning hours of Nov. 11 at Manny's Blue Room in Robbins, where he was working

security, when a fight broke out and shots were fired. 

Police from multiple jurisdictions responded to the shooting, including a white officer from neighboring Midlothian,

who shot Roberson in the parking lot as he held one of the suspected bar shooters on the ground at gunpoint,

according to witnesses. 

attorney general. 

The Southtown is seeking police reports generated by Midlothian police related to the shooting, as well as the

officer's personnel files. The Southtown is continuing to seek the information through FOIA requests with the

In its response to the chief of the attorney general's public access bureau, Midlothian notes the "officer has very

real fear for his life if he is identified at this time." 

The village cited posts on social media, including the police department's Facebook page, and said that apart from

death threats, there have been "intentional attempts to disclose (the officer's) home address." 

State police are investigating the shooting, and the officer is on administrative leave pending the outcome of that

investigation. 

investigation. 

"Demands for the officer's termination, prosecution and incarceration have been proposed regardless of what the

investigation and evidence determine," Midlothian's letter to the attorney general's office states. 

On Nov. 20, U.S. District Court Judge Joan Lefkow denied a motion by Roberson's family seeking to force the

disclosure of the officer. The matter is scheduled to be back before the judge on Jan. 18. 

In denying the Southtown's request for police reports and supplemental files pertaining to the shooting, Midlothian

notes that such information is in the hands of state police, and such a disclosure would jeopardize the

"The specific reasons disclosure would compromise the investigation involves witnesses who have yet to be

interviewed and suspects involved in the incident that have yet to be arrested," the letter reads. 

Witnesses and Roberson's family said that Roberson was wearing clothing identifying him as a security guard,

although a preliminary investigation by state police disputes that. State police said the Midlothian officer gave

Roberson "multiple verbal commands" to drop his gun and get on the ground, but witnesses said the officer started

firing at Roberson before giving him an adequate chance to respond to the verbal commands. 

Midlothian police later issued a statement offering condolences to Roberson's family and calling the shooting "the

equivalent of a 'blue on blue,' friendly fire incident." 

---------- 

mnolan@southtownstar.com 

Twitter @mnolan_j 

CAPTION: Photo: (Jemel) Roberson 

CREDIT: By Mike Nolan, Daily Southtown 
 
 
