
 
Nov. 15--Jemel Roberson was wearing a cap and sweatshirt that had the word "Security" on them when he was

fatally shot by a Midlothian police officer while Roberson was trying to subdue a suspect early Sunday at a

Robbins bar, a man who said he was working with him at the bar told the Tribune. 

Dorian Myrickes, 43, who said he was injured during the chaotic early-morning incident at the bar, also said that the

Midlothian officer did warn Roberson to drop his gun but fired at him within "not even five seconds" of the warning. 

Authorities investigating the shooting declined to address Myrickes' accounts of the shooting or confirm that he

But Myrickes, who spoke Thursday morning from a suburban hospital bed, said another officer at the scene

rebuked the Midlothian cop after Roberson's shooting. 

"One cop ... he said, 'Man, you didn't have to do that, you didn't have to do that. We know these guys. We told you

they're security,' " said Myrickes, who said he was close to passing out from his injury when he heard that

Myrickes also said Roberson initially sought assistance from the Midlothian officer to help him subdue a suspect

from an earlier shooting that had brought several police officers to the scene. 

Myrickes' description of what Roberson was wearing differs from details from an Illinois State Police preliminary

investigation that said Roberson was wearing "plain black clothing with no markings readily identifying him as a

was present. 

statement. 

Security Guard." 

Myrickes' account also differs in one aspect from what he earlier told The Associated Press. The AP reported that

Myrickes said he never heard the officer tell Roberson to drop his gun. In a later interview with the Tribune,

Myrickes said he did hear the officer command Roberson to drop his weapon before shooting him seconds later. 

Myrickes could not be reached again later to clarify the discrepancy. 

State police, citing witness statements, said Wednesday that Roberson was told "multiple" times to drop his gun. 

Myrickes' account adds fuel to the controversy that has arisen over the shooting of Roberson, who is black, by the

Midlothian officer, who is white and has since been placed on leave. The shooting took place while the officer and

others responded to a "shots fired" call at Manny's Blue Room Lounge on Claire Boulevard in Robbins. 

In his interview with the Tribune, Myrickes said he and Roberson were part of the six-person security team working

at Manny's on Saturday night and into Sunday morning. Myrickes said he and Roberson were initially working

unarmed as the inside crew but that he believes Roberson either had a suspect's gun when he was shot by police

or had at some point retrieved his own weapon from vehicle parked outside. 

Myrickes said a fight broke out between two groups of men and that he and Roberson were trying to defuse the

situation. 

"So we got, like, four people out the front door, and we were trying to get eight people out the side door," Myrickes

said from his hospital room. "They were becoming very aggressive and started threatening our lives. We get them

out the door, we tell them we're going to make sure they get their people out safely, that we didn't mean no harm,

we just got to break up the altercation. 

"Next thing you know, one of the guys pulled a gun out and started shooting," Myrickes said, adding that security

guards working outside the club make sure male patrons get "patted down pretty good" before entering the bar. He

said he believed the shooter either stashed a gun outside or someone outside passed it to him. 

Myrickes said he and Roberson were near the doorway but still inside when the shooting started. But before they

could shut the door, he said, a second person started shooting. 

"By this time, I didn't even realize I was hit. I stumbled and I fell," he said, adding that a young woman told him to

get up or he was going to die. 

Myrickes said he could hear someone in the group of men that had started shooting yelling, "Go get the blitz,"

which meant they wanted to get a bigger weapon. 

"Everyone started panicking, running in different directions," he said. "I stumbled out the front door. ... That's when I

ran into the (Midlothian) police officer (who) had the AR-15, and he pointed it straight at my head, he said, 'Put your

hands up.'" 

Myrickes said he told the officer he was a security guard and not to shoot him. 

"He comes over, puts the flashlight in my face and said, 'You've been hit,'" Myrickes said. "He pulled my sweatshirt

back and told me I was hit with a gun. He was so aggressive, and I said, 'Let me go back in the club and warn them

that a cop's coming in with a gun.' 

bartender, shouting, 'Get on the ground!'" 

"He (runs) past me so fast -- I made it back into the club -- and he jumps up on the bar, points the gun at the

Myrickes said there were other police officers already in the bar at that point but that none were helping Roberson

with the suspect from the earlier shooting, whom he was holding at gunpoint facedown on the ground just outside

the side door. 

"He was yelling (to Roberson to) drop the gun," Myrickes said. "Jemel said, 'I'm security. You need to handcuff this

guy, get (him) under control.' We don't want the guy to flip over and take the gun from Jemel." 

Myrickes said that from the time the officer ordered Roberson to drop the gun to the time the officer fired the first

shot was "not even five seconds." 

"The first shot goes in (Roberson's) leg," Myrickes said. "(The officer) waves the gun across the bar, everybody's

like, 'Whoa, whoa,' and then (the officer) shoots (Roberson) again. I saw Jemel get hit a second time in the side." 

Myrickes said he then began to pass out but heard another cop in the bar rebuke the officer who shot Roberson. 

"One cop, black cop with glasses, he said, 'Man, you didn't have to do that, you didn't have to do that. We know

these guys. We told you they're security.'" 

Myrickes said he didn't recognize the officer who opened fire or the officer that gave the reprimand. 

said there were maybe four or five other police officers in the bar at the time Roberson was shot. 

Official sources have not addressed many aspects of Myrickes' account, including how many officers were on the

scene, whether the officer who shot Roberson used an AR-15 or whether another officer admonished the

Midlothian cop for shooting Roberson. 

The Cook County medical examiner's office has confirmed that Roberson died of multiple gunshot wounds. 

Myrickes said he believed the man Roberson was subduing was one of the men who opened fire on them, but he

did not know whether the gun Roberson was holding was his own or one he had taken away from the shooter. 

"Jemel and I weren't armed that night," he said. "Jemel leaves his bulletproof vest and gun in the car. ... Jemel may

have had time to go get his gun out of his car when the fight started brewing. He did everything right. He didn't

deserve to get shot." 

disrespectful." 

Myrickes said he and Roberson had been working together at the club for a while. 

"He was a gentle giant," Myrickes said. "He would always say 'sir' or 'ma'am.' Even if he was kicking someone out,

he would always say, 'Hey, go home and sober up and come back and party with us the next day.' He was never

Myrickes said he was shot twice in the shoulder and that one of his lungs is collapsed. He said doctors are

contemplating surgery to repair the lung. 

His choked up with emotion when he recalled hearing that Roberson was dead. 

"My brother came to the (hospital) room Monday and told me," he said. "I was hurt, man. The guy was 26. This guy

was trying to do everything the right way." 

mwalberg@chicagotribune.com 

CREDIT: By Matthew Walberg 
 
 
