

The Latest: Vegas police say 2 officers involved - Associated Press State
Wire: Nevada (NV) - January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Nevada (NV)

LAS VEGAS (AP) — T he Latest on the fatal shooting by officers of an armed man who had been
sought in the slaying of his wife (all times local):

Police say two Las Vegas officers were involved in the fatal shooting of an armed man who fled
from a home overnight after shooting his wife to death.

A department statement says the man later identified as Axell Vivas
he got out of a car a little before 3 a.m. Friday and "brandished" a handgun toward officers. Vivas
was pronounced dead at the scene.

Axell Vivas  was shot multiple times after

Police Capt. Chris Little says a 16-year-old stepson had called 911 to say his stepfather shot and
killed his mother at their home in a neighborhood south of the Las Vegas Strip.

T he teen and children ages 5, 6 and 9 were found unharmed in the home.

County Child Protective Services officials are caring for the children.

11:10 a.m.

____

9 a.m.

Police in Las Vegas say a 41-year-old man who fled from a home after shooting his wife to death
had a handgun and refused to surrender before he was shot and killed by officers.

Police Capt. Chris Little says a 16-year-old stepson called 911 early Friday and said his stepfather
shot and killed his mother at their home in a neighborhood south of the Las Vegas Strip.

T he teen and children ages 5, 6 and 9 were found unharmed in the home.

Axell Vivas , was shot and killed by officers a little before
Little says the suspect, later identified as Axell Vivas
3 a.m. when he got out of a vehicle parked in another neighborhood and refused to drop the gun.

County Child Protective Services officials are caring for the children.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Vegas police say man who killed wife shot dead by - Associated Press
State Wire: Nevada (NV) - January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Nevada (NV)

LAS VEGAS (AP) — Police in Las Vegas say a 41-year-old man who fled from a home after
shooting his wife to death had a handgun and refused to surrender before he was shot and killed
by officers.

Police Capt. Chris Little says a 16-year-old stepson called 911 early Friday and said his stepfather
shot and killed his mother at their home in a neighborhood south of the Las Vegas Strip.

T he teen and children ages 5, 6 and 9 were found unharmed in the home.

Axell Vivas , was shot and killed by officers a little before
Little says the suspect, later identified as Axell Vivas
3 a.m. when he got out of a vehicle parked in another neighborhood and refused to drop the gun.

County Child Protective Services officials are caring for the children.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

 
Jan. 26--A man who killed his wife in a house full of children was shot to death early today after brandishing a gun

when officers spotted him in a parked car, according to Metro Police. 

The man shot his wife just after midnight Thursday at a house in the 11000 block of Giles Street, near Las Vegas

Boulevard, north of Cactus Avenue, Metro Capt. Chris Little said. 

The woman's 16-year-old son called 911 and reported his stepfather had shot his mother and fled the house, Little

said. The teen and three younger children, ages 5, 6 and 9, in the house were uninjured, but the woman died at the

scene, Little said. 

Street, police said. 

rounds, killing him, police said. 

Officers began canvassing the area and found the man, Axell Vivas, 41, about 2:40 a.m. in a parked car on Elcadore

Vivas disobeyed commands and got out of the car brandishing a gun, prompting two officers to fire multiple

Investigators were trying to determine if there was a history of domestic violence between the couple, Little said. 

Little's account was based on a preliminary investigation, and further details will be provided within 72 hours per

Metro policy. 

The Associated Press contributed to this report. 

CREDIT: By Ricardo Torres-Cortez 
 
 

Details of 2018’s first Las Vegas police - Las Vegas Review-Journal (NV) -
January 31, 2018
January 31, 2018 | Las Vegas Review-Journal (NV) | Mike Shoro Las Vegas Review-Journal

A man authorities suspect killed his wife asked officers to shoot him before they opened fire, the
Metropolitan Police Department announced T uesday.

At a news conference discussing two Friday police shootings, Metro said officers commanded
Axell Vivas
Axell Vivas  to drop his gun before two officers fired a combined 14 shots, killing him outside his
car early Friday morning in the far south Las Vegas Valley.

“Obviously, the officers’ attempts weren’t good enough,” Clark County Assistant Sheriff Brett
Zimmerman said.

Police said a 16-year-old boy called police to say his stepfather shot his mother about 12:10 a.m.
Friday on the 11000 block of Giles Street, near Las Vegas Boulevard and St. Rose Parkway. Christy
G. Vaughn, 39, died of multiple gunshot wounds.

Zimmerman said Vivas reloaded his revolver after shooting his wife, said he wanted police to kill
him and then fled the home. Police found him in a car about 2:40 a.m. on nearby Elcadore Street.
Within minutes, he got out of the car and waved the revolver around, officers said.

Body-worn camera footage showed Metro Officer Celina Cruz, 30, panting and pointing a shotgun
while another officer negotiated with Vivas.

“I don’t want to put you out of your misery,” the officer shouted. “I want to talk.”

Police shot at Vivas but missed, Zimmerman said, so they continued to shoot.

“Vivas took cover behind the vehicle and popped up at least two times, pointing the firearm at the
officers,” Zimmerman said.

In total, Cruz fired three shots from a 12-gauge shotgun, and Officer Anthony Raymond, 33, shot
11 rounds from an AR-15. Vivas was hit three times and died at the scene.

Vivas had no prior criminal history. However, Zimmerman said Vivas had recently lost his job.

Police also shot a man later Friday. An apparently drunken man was seen waving a BB gun about
11:30 p.m. Friday on the 1800 block of Las Vegas Blvd. South.

Justin Blake ignored police commands to drop the weapon and raise his hands, Assistant Sheriff
T im Kelly said. Kelly said Blake ran onto the median on Las Vegas Boulevard, turned and pointed
the weapon.

Metro Officer Bryan Davila, 33, shot four times at Blake, hitting him in the arm, foot and leg.

Kelly said Blake was combative and uncooperative with police throughout the incident and refused
to speak with police.

Blake, 34, is accused of resisting an officer with a weapon, carrying a concealed weapon without a
permit and assault on a protected person.

Contact Mike Shoro at mshoro@reviewjournal.com or 702-387-5290. Follow @mike_shoro on
T witter.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Las Veg as Review-Journal

 

Man killed in shootout with cops was out on bail - Daily Herald
(Arlington Heights, IL) - March 24, 2018 - page 1
March 24, 2018 | Daily Herald (Arlington Heights, IL) | Susan Sarkauskas ssarkauskas@dailyherald.com | Page
1

T he man Aurora police shot and killed Thursday night had been arrested March 18 on a weapons
charge and was free on bail, Aurora Police Chief Kristen Ziman said Friday.

Santiag o Calderon
Santiag o Calderon, 36, of Aurora, was identified as the man shot after police chased him to
downtown Aurora when he fled their attempt to pull him over.

T he officers involved, Matt Huber and Colin Griffin, have been placed on paid administrative leave
while the Kane

County Major Crimes T ask Force investigates.

Ziman expressed condolences to Calderon’s family at a news conference at the police department.

"Despite his actions that resulted in this outcome, he (Calderon) is a father and a son, and that is
not lost on us," Ziman said.

Ziman praised the police officers, saying they acted "bravely and courageously."

Griffin was shot in the leg and Huber injured his shoulder while taking cover during the shootout.
Both were treated at a hospital and released.

T he two were watching a suspected "gang house" on the 200 block of South Lake Street when
they saw two men exit and get into a green Chevrolet sport utility vehicle. T hey pulled it over on the
0-99 block of East Galena Boulevard.

Calderon, who was the driver, fired shots at the officers and then drove off, hitting a Chevrolet
Malibu at Galena and Broadway. Calderon then ran from the SUV and fired more shots.

He was killed in a parking lot on LaSalle Street between Galena and Downer Place. He was
pronounced dead at the scene.

Ziman said the officers were in an unmarked police car that did not have a dashboard camera.
Aurora police do not wear body cameras.

Police are seeking any video surveillance from security cameras on buildings in the area.

Ziman said the "gang house" has been the focus of police and been connected to shootings.

Calderon had been due to appear in court March 21 on the gun charge, according to Kane County
court records, but did not do so, and a warrant had been issued for his arrest.

She did not know what caliber handgun Calderon used, nor how many times he had been shot. T he
Kane County coroner’s office will conduct an autopsy.

T he passenger in Calderon’s car was released from custody Friday morning without charges.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Daily Herald

 
Suburban Chicago police release video in fatal - Associated Press State
Wire: Illinois (IL) - April 18, 2018
April 18, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

AURORA, Ill. (AP) — Suburban Chicago police have released video clips and photos of a March
shootout that wounded two officers and killed a 36-year-old man.

Aurora police spokesman Dan Ferrelli says the department released the images Tuesday "to be as
transparent as possible during an open and complicated investigation."

Santiag o Calderon of Aurora died in the March 22 shootout after two officers stopped a vehicle
Santiag o Calderon
seen leaving a suspected gang house.

Video from a bank's AT M camera and a parking lot surveillance camera includes footage showing
Calderon running from an officer and that officer diving as Calderon opens fire.

T he (Arlington Heights) Daily Herald reports one officer was wounded by gunfire and the other
suffered an injury that wasn't gunshot-related.

Both officers remain on paid administrative leave as authorities investigate the shooting.

___

Information from: Daily Herald, http://www.dailyherald.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Aurora police release surveillance video from - Chicago Sun-Times (IL) -
April 17, 2018
April 17, 2018 | Chicago Sun-Times (IL) | Matthew Hendrickson

Aurora police released surveillance video Tuesday on Facebook from a fatal police-involved
shooting last month in the west suburb.

About 9:45 p.m. March 22, two officers pulled over a vehicle in the first block of Galena Boulevard
after they saw it leave a "known gang house" in the 200 block of South Lake Street, according to
Aurora police.

Santiag o Calderon | Aurora police
Santiag o Calderon

T he driver of the vehicle, 36-year-old Santiag o Calderon
officers before taking off east and crashing into another vehicle at the intersection of Galena
Boulevard and Broadway, police said.

Santiag o Calderon of Aurora, then fired shots at the

After getting out of his vehicle, Calderon was fatally wounded in a shootout with officers on Lasalle
Street between Galena Boulevard and Downer Place, police said. A handgun was found by his side
when officers tried to provide medical attention.

On T uesday, police said that because the surveillance videos were sometimes difficult to see,
authorities took screen shots and highlighted key moments in the incident to clarify what
happened to viewers.

“Please remember these are taken from bank surveillance cameras and appear ‘jumpy’. Also, the
AT M and Bank Parking Lot cameras are not synchronized so there are some minor discrepancies
in timing,” the department wrote in the post.

 

T he videos released by police also includes footage shot by a citizen that shows the officer’s initial
response, police said. T he captions in the video were placed on the footage by the citizen, not the
police department.

T he footage begins with Calderon running from an investigator toward a white SUV in the parking
lot of a bank, where shots are exchanged with officers, police said. Later in the video, an officer can
be seen dropping to the ground when Calderon fires again.

Police provided a detailed narrative of the incident as well as timestamps in their Facebook post.

Calderon, who lived in Aurora, was pronounced dead at the scene, according to the Kane County
Coroner's Office.

One of the officers, Colin Griffin, was shot in his leg and taken to a hospital in Aurora, Aurora Police
Chief Kristen Ziman said at a March 23 news conference.

T he other officer, Matthew Huber, also suffered an injury to his shoulder during the exchange, but
wasn't wounded by gunfire, police said.

T he officers, both 10-year veterans of the department, were treated and released from the
hospital. Both were placed on paid administrative leave while the Kane County Major Crimes T ask
Force investigates the shooting, police said.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Sun-Times Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

 
Man dies, officers wounded in shootout in suburban - Associated Press
State Wire: Illinois (IL) - March 23, 2018
March 23, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

AURORA, Ill. (AP) — Authorities say a man has died and two police officers were wounded in a
shootout following a suburban Chicago traffic stop.

T he Aurora Police Department says two special operations investigators followed a vehicle they'd
spotted leaving a suspected gang house and pulled it over Thursday night. Police say the driver
fired at them and fled before crashing and running away.

Police identified the man as 36-year-old Santiag o Calderon
investigators fired shots and Calderon was fatally shot. Police say one investigator had a non-life
threatening gunshot wound to the leg and the other had an injury that wasn't gunshot-related.
Both are on paid administrative leave pending an investigation into the shooting.

Santiag o Calderon of Aurora. T hey say Calderon and

A second person in the vehicle stopped by police didn't flee and was released from custody Friday
without charges.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Mom recalls son's loving last words to her - Man - Beacon News, The
(Aurora, IL) - April 12, 2018 - page 1
April 12, 2018 | Beacon News, The (Aurora, IL) | Hannah Leone | Page 1

T en years ago, 26-year-old Santiag o Calderon
police officer Ramon Lopez.

Santiag o Calderon Jr. stood on Gates Street with his back to Aurora

Calderon, who lived steps away on Ashland Avenue, raised a gun in his right hand and fired several
shots toward Phillips Park, according to a police report Lopez filed after the April 4, 2008,
confrontation. Lopez ordered Calderon to drop his gun, and Calderon appeared to ditch it in a
parked car. T hen Lopez told him to get on the ground.

"Shoot me," Calderon said, according to the 2008 report.

Calderon started to walk away, so Lopez ran and tackled him from behind. When another officer
arrived, Calderon was facedown on the sidewalk yelling or crying while handcuffed. He was
arrested and charged with aggravated unlawful use of a weapon and reckless discharge of a
firearm.

A decade later, at age 36, Calderon died March 22 in a downtown Aurora shootout involving two
Aurora police officers. Kane County Coroner Rob Russell said Calderon's preliminary cause of death
was "multiple" gunshot wounds. Authorities have not yet disclosed how many or clarified whether
one or both of the officers, both investigators, fired their guns. T he Kane County Major Crimes
T ask Force is investigating. Aurora police have not yet released video of the incident.

"He's not a saint," said Calderon's mother, Elba Solis. "I don't know what happened that day. Do I
want to know? Yeah. Do I want to find out? Yeah. But ... All I know is that I got a call saying to come
down to the police station, and they told me my son was dead ... All I know is I got (his) four kids
and I've got to try to take care of them."

Solis described Calderon as happy-go-lucky and impulsive, close to his four siblings, with many
friends and few enemies. Maybe it was his time, she said. She said she's just trying to pick up the
pieces.

"If they felt they were doing their job, well, more power to them," Solis said. "T hey left four kids
fatherless. It's just that way. Nothing, nothing that I can say or nothing, nothing that anybody can
do can bring my son back."

Solis said she knows her son will always be watching down on his kids, because of how much he
loved them. He was a good father who would spoil them one second and discipline the next, she
said.

In her Yorkville apartment during a recent interview, Solis, 59, teared up reflecting on the son

whose last words to her were that he loved her, whose favorite saying was "Count your blessings,
not your problems." He never married and was effectively a single father, Solis said. Now she said
she's doing her best to get his four children, ages 12 to 17, through the rest of the school year.
Her two-bedroom apartment is too small for them all to keep living there, so she also has to think
about moving.

Solis said Calderon had been between jobs and was trying to go to school for truck driving. T hat
was his last wish, Solis said.

Calderon had a record of arrests on charges related to domestic violence, soliciting a sex act,
growing marijuana and trespassing at the Hollywood Casino. His convictions included reckless
discharge of a firearm, aggravated unlawful use of a weapon, resisting police and producing
marijuana.

Calderon had more than a dozen encounters with Aurora police, according to reports provided to
the Beacon-News. In a few cases, he also was a victim of crime, reporting his car burglarized or
vandalized. Police listed him as a witness to a 2001 attempted murder in which a man was jumped,
punched, kicked and stabbed.

Solis said that at some point during her son's adult life, some people started to wonder about his
mental health. In one police report, a passenger in Calderon's car told an officer that Calderon had
bipolar disorder but did not take medication. But Solis said that to her knowledge, he was never
diagnosed.

Days before his death, Aurora police questioned Calderon following a shooting on the city's west
side. On March 18, police were searching for a silver or white SUV they suspected was involved in
the shooting. Investigators focused on a driveway with two SUVs, a silver model and a white Ford
Escape.

When the Ford left the driveway and headed north on South Lake Street, police followed and
clocked it going about 7 mph over the speed limit.

T hey pulled it over on the 100 block of South Lincolnway Street, according to reports. Calderon was
driving. His two passengers said they were going to a party in North Aurora, while Calderon told
police they were headed to an East Side Aurora barbecue, according to reports. T heir stories didn't
match up.

A pat-down search followed, and police reported feeling a large, metallic object in Calderon's jacket
pocket. An officer handcuffed Calderon, then unzipped his jacket, according to reports. Officers
found a 9 mm semi-automatic handgun with no rounds in the chamber but seven live rounds in the
magazine, police reported. Calderon told police he had more ammunition. Police found the box
under the driver's seat.

Calderon said there was no way his gun could have been used in the shooting earlier in the day,
according to police reports. And police ultimately did not believe Calderon or anyone in his car was
involved in the shooting earlier that day, the reports said.

But, as a convicted felon without a firearm owner's identification card, he wasn't supposed to have
a gun. He was charged with felonies including aggravated unlawful use of a loaded weapon and
appeared in Aurora Branch Court where Associate Judge Sandra Parga set his bail at $75,000.
Calderon bonded out, then skipped a status hearing March 21 in St. Charles. Kane County
Associate Judge David Kliment ordered a warrant issued for his arrest.

T he next day - March 22 - police said two investigators in an unmarked car followed an SUV driven
by Calderon from a "known gang house" on South Lake Street to the first block of East Galena
Boulevard, where they stopped it.

Calderon, who had a 24-year-old Aurora man in the car with him, shot at officers, then drove away
eastbound, striking another car at Galena and Route 25, Aurora Police Chief Kristen Ziman said.

After the crash, Calderon ran, exchanging gunfire with the investigators, police said. Calderon was
fatally shot in the parking lot on South LaSalle Street between Galena and Downer Place, police
said.

Other officers started to arrive. One reported seeing Calderon on the ground near a concrete pillar
under the railroad bridge. Calderon did not respond to police and was motionless, according to
reports.

When one sergeant got there, he reported seeing Calderon still facedown, restrained with two sets
of handcuffs.

"It appeared he was bleeding from his head," the sergeant wrote. "T he medics asked for an officer
to un-handcuff the offender."

Police removed the handcuffs, and medics turned Calderon over so he was facing up, according to
reports. He was pronounced dead at the scene, police said.

Officers reported finding a pistol on the sidewalk a few feet away.

Ziman said the investigators involved, Matthew Huber and Colin Griffin, were both put on paid
administrative leave while the case is under investigation. Police have not disclosed why they
stopped the car.

Medics treated Griffin for a graze wound and Huber for shoulder injuries. Both were taken to an
Aurora hospital, treated and released, according to reports.

T he next afternoon, two men, including one who said he was Calderon's brother, pulled up to the
parking lot in a silver sedan. T hey parked on LaSalle street, got out and tried to retrace some of
Calderon's last steps.

"I don't understand," one of the men said as he walked through the parking lot, under the
overpass.

T wo weeks later, friends and family filled Healy Chapel on Downer Place for a visitation. Calderon

wore a pinstriped Cubs jersey, because, Solis said, that's what his kids wanted.

T wo toy owls perched near his head, and a Cubs hat rested near his left side. One day, well into
Calderon's adulthood, "he just came up with this fascination of owls and it never stopped," Solis
said. He thought they were good luck, she said. A family photograph and a cross were also tucked
inside the casket.

T he family is thankful for everyone who has chipped in financially or supported them with hugs,
prayers and kind words, Solis said.

Solis said when Calderon would visit, sometimes he'd leave her money, $10 or $20. He often
brought her groceries or tacos.

He believed in God, in his own way, and was philosophical, Solis said. He liked to have answers, and
he liked to be right. He'd challenge anyone on anything, she said.

But she remembers him as a good kid who played basketball, football and baseball and didn't get
into fights. At family gatherings, Calderon was always the clown, Solis said.

Earlier this year, when Solis was in the hospital, Calderon showed up with a balloon and teddy bear,
his mother said.

"He goes, 'Mom, I got the receipt in the car, I'm coming back for this stuff tomorrow, I just didn't
want to come in empty-handed,' " Solis said. "And the nurse is like, 'You didn't just say that?' "

Solis knew he was only kidding. She knew her son better than that, she said.

Yet he didn't want to worry her and didn't tell her much when he got arrested, she said. T here were
things he liked to keep to himself.

"When he shared, he shared, and when he didn't, he didn't," Solis said.

T he night he died, he was just visiting someone, she said.

"It was the second time they followed him out of there in an unmarked car," Solis said. "An
unmarked car, anybody would be scared."

T hough acknowledging he'd been to jail, Solis said she believes her son was "not a gangbanger"
but was lumped in because of people he hung around with.

"Like they say, you can lead a horse to water but you can't make him drink, so that's the way he
was," Solis said. "He had friends all over. I didn't know how many friends he had until he died."

hleone@tribpub.com

T witter @hannahmleone

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Beacon News. All rights reserved. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED.

 
Four officers receive highest honor from the - Beacon News, The
(Aurora, IL) - January 20, 2019 - page 6
January 20, 2019 | Beacon News, The (Aurora, IL) | Megan Jones | Page 6

Four Aurora police officers were awarded the highest honor that an officer can receive during a
ceremony at the Aurora Police Department on Wednesday.

Officers Ryszard Drozdowski and Bradley Vonhoff received Medal of Valor awards for rescuing a
potential drowning victim on May 4, 2018.

A 95-year-old Downers Grove woman had lost control of her vehicle and drove into a Far East Side
retention pond near Bilter Road and DuPage Parkway.

Both men shed their uniforms and gear, jumped into the water and swam out to the already
submerged vehicle.

"We dove as much as we could underneath and I remember grabbing a limb," Drozdowski said. "I
was pulling and pulling and pulling, and at the last time, it slipped away from my hand ... I tried going
under again and I couldn't find her."

Aurora firefighters arrived and with their help, they were able to bring the woman to land where
CPR was performed.

"I collapsed because I was exhausted," Drozdowski said. "I couldn't even tell you if the water was
cold, but we just jumped in. It's a huge honor to receive this and I'm at the tail-end of my career, so
it's nice that officers get recognized. At the time right now, officers are getting a bad rep, but
people forget we are people too."

Vonhoff said he was shocked to receive the award and said it's an honor.

"It's nothing any of my brothers wouldn't have done here too," Vonhoff said.

Special Operations Investigators Colin Griffin and Matthew Huber also received Medal of Valor
awards for their response when they came under gunfire by a known gang member on March 22,
2018, police said.

T he pair was conducting a traffic stop investigation on a suspicious vehicle occupied by two men
leaving a known gang house, Ziman said. As they approached the stopped car while walking, the
36-year-old driver Santiag o Calderon
Griffin was struck by gunfire in the lower leg.

Santiag o Calderon reached out his window and fired several times, police said.

Huber returned fire at the fleeing car, police said. Both of the officers went back to their squad car
to tell other officers that the suspect was fleeing.

Calderon was shot and killed in the parking lot on South LaSalle Street during a shootout with
police.

"You both did not retreat from the gunfire," Ziman said. "Instead, you sought to apprehend a
violent offender at great risk to your own personal welfare."

While each scenario is different, they both involved the same commitment to protecting others
without hesitation, Ziman said.

"In both instances, they put themselves in harm's way to protect our community," Ziman said.

T he Aurora Police Department also unveiled a new patch that honors its history and takes
elements from the patch police used prior to 1969. T he patch also includes the city emblem of
Aurora.

New employees and retirees were also honored during the ceremony.

mejones@chicagotribune.com

T witter @MeganA_Jones

Copyrig ht, 2019, The Beacon News. All rights reserved. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED.

 
Man killed in shootout with cops was out on bail - Daily Herald
(Arlington Heights, IL) - March 24, 2018 - page 1
March 24, 2018 | Daily Herald (Arlington Heights, IL) | Susan Sarkauskas ssarkauskas@dailyherald.com | Page
1

T he man Aurora police shot and killed Thursday night had been arrested March 18 on a weapons
charge and was free on bail, Aurora Police Chief Kristen Ziman said Friday.

Santiag o Calderon
Santiag o Calderon, 36, of Aurora, was identified as the man shot after police chased him to
downtown Aurora when he fled their attempt to pull him over.

T he officers involved, Matt Huber and Colin Griffin, have been placed on paid administrative leave
while the Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force investigates.

Ziman expressed condolences to Calderon’s family at a news conference at the police department.

"Despite his actions that resulted in this outcome, he (Calderon) is a father and a son, and that is
not lost on us," Ziman said.

Ziman praised the police officers, saying they acted "bravely and courageously."

Griffin was shot in the leg and Huber injured his shoulder while taking cover during the shootout.
Both were treated at a hospital and released.

T he two were watching a suspected "gang house" on the 200 block of South Lake Street when
they saw two men exit and get into a green Chevrolet sport utility vehicle. T hey pulled it over on the
0-99 block of East Galena Boulevard.

Calderon, who was the driver, fired shots at the officers and then drove off, hitting a Chevrolet
Malibu at Galena and Broadway. Calderon then ran from the SUV and fired more shots.

He was killed in a parking lot on LaSalle Street between Galena and Downer Place. He was
pronounced dead at the scene.

Ziman said the officers were in an unmarked police car that did not have a dashboard camera.
Aurora police do not wear body cameras.

Police are seeking any video surveillance from security cameras on buildings in the area.

Ziman said the "gang house" has been the focus of police and been connected to shootings.

Calderon had been due to appear in court March 21 on the gun charge, according to Kane County
court records, but did not do so, and a warrant had been issued for his arrest.

She did not know what caliber handgun Calderon used, nor how many times he had been shot. T he
Kane County coroner’s office will conduct an autopsy.

T he passenger in Calderon’s car was released from custody Friday morning without charges.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Daily Herald

 
Downtown Aurora businesses ‘focus on positive - Daily Herald
(Arlington Heights, IL) - March 24, 2018
March 24, 2018 | Daily Herald (Arlington Heights, IL) | Marie Wilson mwilson@dailyherald.com

Downtown Aurora businesses ‘focus on positive’ after fatal shooting

T he fatal police-involved shootout Thursday in Aurora was three blocks from the Paramount
T heatre and two blocks from city hall, but business leaders say it shouldn’t cause people to shy
away from downtown.

T here’s no reason for the case to adversely affect businesses, said Jimi Allen, whose Bureau
Gravity marketing company is nearing completion of a workspace for employees and clients just
down LaSalle Street from where the shooting took place.

"It’s up to business owners to make this downtown alive," he said and bring "more people making
things here than making trouble."

T he shooting also doesn’t change the goals of those promoting downtown activities and culture,
said Marissa Amoni with Aurora Downtown, a business coalition that plans events in the area.

"In a city of our size, we are lucky to have a great police patrol and a safe downtown," Amoni said.
"We won’t be discouraged by this rare event."

Police said the shooting took place about 9:45 p.m. when investigators followed a vehicle leaving a
"known gang house" on Lake Street just west of the Fox River and tried to conduct a traffic stop.

When the driver, identified as 36-year-old Santiag o Calderon
shot at investigators, then drove away, crashing into another vehicle at Galena Boulevard and
Broadway, just east of the river. After the crash, police said Calderon got out of his car and ran,
exchanging gunfire with two investigators.

Santiag o Calderon of Aurora, pulled over, police said he

Police said the man was killed on LaSalle Street between Galena Boulevard and Downer Place.
Officer Matt Huber was shot in the leg and officer Colin Griffin injured his shoulder. Both were
treated at an Aurora hospital and released.

Allen, who has been working for eight years to open a new office and event space at 56 S. LaSalle
St. in a former auto garage, said he stays in the area because it takes investment to create a new
vibrancy and deter crime.

"As long as people are present and good things are going on, we don’t have to worry about this
stuff," Allen said.

Amoni said people patronizing downtown businesses such as Leland Legends, Gillerson’s Grubbery

or Endiro Coffee stayed safe T hursday, even while police were tracking down and exchanging
gunfire with the driver involved in the shooting.

"T he police also responded very well with cordoning off the area so everyone was safe," Amoni
said.

She said additional lighting recently was installed on Broadway and the area often remains busy in
the evenings with shows at the Paramount T heatre — although there was no production T hursday
night.

T im Rater, the Paramount’s president and CEO, said patrons don’t tell "scary stories" about their
experiences coming into downtown Aurora, parking and attending shows.

"When they come, they feel safe," he said.

T he theater provides security and police routinely patrol the area. As a resident and a downtown
employee for nearly eight years, Rater said he’s never felt threatened in any way — and T hursday’s
shooting didn’t change that.

Because the events leading to the shooting began outside downtown, Rater and Amoni said it
shouldn’t be seen as an episode of "downtown crime."

She also said the shooting shouldn’t deter people from attending activities in the area, such as the
Egg Hunt on the Island on Saturday, the third annual Food T ruck Fest on Friday, May 4, or
Downtown Aurora Magic on June 8 and 9.

T hat’s Allen’s approach, too. Instead of shying away from the area where the shooting occurred,
he wants to bring more people there as clients who come for meetings or guests who come for
parties at the future Gravity Building.

"We need to focus on what is positive," Allen said. "T he only answer is ‘make it better.’"

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Daily Herald

 
Videos show police shootout - Snapchat, bank - Beacon News, The
(Aurora, IL) - April 18, 2018 - page 1
April 18, 2018 | Beacon News, The (Aurora, IL) | Hannah Leone | Page 1

Aurora police on Tuesday released video involving an officer-involved shooting that resulted in the
death of a 36-year-old Aurora man in March.

Santiag o Calderon, 36, died from multiple gunshot wounds following a downtown shootout
Santiag o Calderon
involving two Aurora police officers, according to the Kane County coroner's office.

Police released video to T he Beacon-News in response to a public records request, and also on
Facebook.

T he video released on Facebook includes clips from a bank surveillance system and social media
including Snapchat. Police noted slight discrepancies in timing because cameras at the bank's
parking lot and AT M aren't synchronized.

T he first clip begins by showing a figure police identified as Calderon running through the parking
lot, left to right in the frame, with an officer close behind. Calderon runs behind a white van parked
on the right side of the frame, and the officer positions himself behind a darker car parked several
spaces to its left.

T here was a warrant out for Calderon's arrest because he failed to appear for a March 21 hearing
on felony gun charges stemming from a March 18 traffic stop. He had been out on bond on
$75,000 bail.

T he officers who pulled him over March 18 were investigating a shooting that day and questioned
him about it, but ultimately did not believe Calderon or his passengers were involved in the
shooting, according to reports. But when they searched him, they found a gun. He did not have a
valid firearm owner's identification card, and was previously convicted of a felony, according to the
pending charges.

On March 22, police said two investigators in an unmarked police car followed a green Chevrolet
SUV driven by Calderon, with a 24-year-old Aurora man as a passenger, from a "known gang
house" on the 200 block of South Lake Street to the first block of East Galena Boulevard, where
they had it pull over. Police did not say how long the investigators had been watching the house
before they saw the SUV leave.

Police said the unmarked car was not equipped with video cameras, and Aurora police do not use
body cameras.

Aurora Police Chief Kristen Ziman previously said the stop was called in before the shooting, and
the unmarked squad had blue and red lights that were activated during the stop, but said she was

unclear on why the car was stopped.

Ziman said the investigators involved, Matthew Huber and Colin Griffin, have each been with the
department for 10 years and were both put on paid administrative leave while the case is under
investigation.

Calderon shot at officers, then drove away eastbound, striking a 2009 Chevrolet Malibu at Galena
Boulevard and Route 25, Ziman said.

After the crash, Calderon ran from the SUV, exchanging gunfire with two investigators, police said.

Calderon was fatally shot in the parking lot on South LaSalle Street between Galena and Downer
Place, police said.

He was pronounced dead at the scene, police said.

Officers reported finding a pistol on the sidewalk a few feet away from Calderon. Medics treated
Griffin for a graze wound and Huber for shoulder injuries. Both were taken to an Aurora hospital,
treated and released, according to reports.

Police said Calderon's passenger, a 24-year-old Aurora man, remained at the scene, and police
ultimately released him without charges.

T he Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force is continuing to investigate.

hleone@tribpub.com

T witter @hannahmleone

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Beacon News. All rights reserved. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED.

 
Man slain in shootout with police - 2 - Beacon News, The (Aurora, IL) -
March 25, 2018 - page 1
March 25, 2018 | Beacon News, The (Aurora, IL) | Hannah Leone | Page 1

A 36-year-old Aurora man killed Thursday night during a downtown shootout with police was free
on bond for felony charges related to illegally possessing a gun March 18.

"He was able to bond out, that is his constitutional right," Aurora Police Chief Kristen Ziman said
during a news conference Friday at the Police Department on East Indian T rail Road. "...
Unfortunately this was the outcome. He was in possession of another firearm."

During the shootout, an Aurora police investigator was shot in the leg, suffering what police
described as a graze wound. Another investigator's shoulder was injured when he was taking cover
from the gunfire, police said.

"It's unfortunate that a criminal decided to carry a gun and fire upon police officers last night, and
it's a shame there was a loss of life because of that criminal action," said Aurora Mayor Richard
Irvin at the news conference.

"Yet the quick actions and preparedness of our officers prevented the situation from escalating
and being much, much worse, ensuring that no innocent bystanders were harmed."

Santiag o Calderon, 36, of Aurora, was driving an SUV followed by investigators with
Ziman said Santiag o Calderon
the department's special operations group. T he investigators were wearing tactical uniforms and
driving an unmarked police vehicle that is not equipped with in-squad video cameras, Ziman said.
Aurora police officers do not have body cameras.

Calderon's autopsy was performed Friday by the Kane County coroner. Coroner Rob Russell listed
the cause of death as multiple gunshot wounds, according to a release from his office.

Around 9:45 p.m. T hursday, Ziman said, the investigators followed a green Chevrolet SUV driven by
Calderon, with a 24-year-old Aurora man as a passenger, from a "known gang house" on the 200
block of South Lake Street to the first block of East Galena Boulevard, where they had it pull over.
Police did not say how long the investigators had been watching the house before they saw the
SUV leave.

Ziman said the stop was called in before the shooting, and the unmarked squad car had blue and
red lights that were activated during the stop. Ziman said she was unclear on why the car was
stopped.

Calderon shot at officers, then drove away eastbound, striking a 2009 Chevrolet Malibu at Galena
and Route 25, Ziman said. T he Malibu's driver, a 19-year-old Aurora man, was its only occupant
and declined medical treatment, Ziman said.

After the crash, Calderon ran from the SUV, exchanging gunfire with two investigators, police said.

"During the exchange of gunfire, Calderon was fatally shot in the parking lot on South LaSalle
Street between Galena and Downer Place," Ziman said.

T he officers went to render aid and saw a gun at Calderon's side, Ziman said. He was pronounced
dead at the scene, she said.

Both investigators were treated and released from an Aurora hospital, police said.

Responding officers took Calderon's passenger, who remained at the scene, into custody and have
since released him without charges, Ziman said.

"I want to express my sympathy to the family of Mr. Calderon," Ziman said. "Despite his actions
that resulted in this outcome, we know he is a father and a son, and that is not lost on us. Our
police officers did an exemplary job last night. T hey were engaged in proactive policing, and when
the offender opened fire upon them, they responded courageously and rapidly to contain the
threat."

Ziman said the investigators involved, Matthew Huber and Colin Griffin, have each been with the
department for 10 years. Both are on paid administrative leave while the case is under
investigation, which is standard with an officer-involved shooting, Ziman said.

Ziman said she believed investigators used the proper force. "When officers are fired upon, we are
going to respond," she said.

T hough the investigators' car did not have video, Ziman said police are getting footage from
witnesses, and some responding squad cars had cameras. T he independent task force heading the
investigation is also in the process of determining whether any surveillance cameras on nearby
buildings caught the shooting, Ziman said.

T he Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force is handling the investigation into the officer-involved
shooting.

While the shooting occurred downtown, Ziman said downtown is still "very safe."

Calderon had appeared in Aurora Branch Court Monday, when Associate Judge Sandra Parga set
his bail at $75,000.

After Calderon didn't appear for a status hearing at 9 a.m. Wednesday at the county judicial center
in St. Charles, Kane County Associate Judge David Kliment ordered a warrant issued for his arrest,
setting bail at $150,000.

Charges filed against Calderon allege that on March 18, while in a vehicle, he illegally had a semi-
automatic handgun, uncased and unloaded with ammunition immediately accessible.

He did not have a valid firearm owner's identification card, and was previously convicted of a
felony, according to the pending charges, which included two class 2 felony counts of aggravated
unlawful use of a weapon, a class 3 felony count of possession of a firearm, and a class 4 count of
aggravated use of a loaded weapon.

Calderon was also facing pending felony aggravated domestic battery charges from March 2016.

Chicago Tribune's Madeline Buckley contributed.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Beacon News. All rights reserved. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED.

 
Police account of videos - Daily Herald (Arlington Heights, IL) - April 18,
2018 - page 5
April 18, 2018 | Daily Herald (Arlington Heights, IL) | Page 5

Aurora police on Tuesday released video clips and still photos showing the March 22 fatal
shootout between two officers and 36-year-old Santiag o Calderon
say the video shows:

Santiag o Calderon of Aurora. Here’s what they

Bank AT M Camera:

9:45:42 — Calderon is seen running from an officer toward the white SUV in the parking lot where
the exchange of shots takes place.

9:45:48 — T he officer dives to the ground after Calderon again begins firing. Calderon is standing
out of camera range.

9:45:53 — T he officer and Calderon are exchanging gunshots.

9:46:05 — T he gunshots have stopped and the two officers take cover behind the SUV.

Parking Lot Camera:

9:45:37 — Calderon is seen next to the white SUV at the top of the photo. An officer is seen next
to the other vehicle as the two exchange gunfire.

9:45:45 — T he second officer is shown on the left side of the screen where he also shoots at
Calderon. Calderon attempts to flee on foot but collapses. T he arrow is the approximate location
of where Calderon collapses.

A third video, shot by a resident, shows some of the unfolding scene and the officers’ initial
response.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Daily Herald

 
Aurora police release videos from fatal shooting - Daily Herald
(Arlington Heights, IL) - April 18, 2018 - page 5
April 18, 2018 | Daily Herald (Arlington Heights, IL) | Justin Kmitch jkmitch@dailyherald.com | Page 5

Aurora police have released video clips and still photos that show the March 22 fatal shootout
between two officers and 36-year-old Santiag o Calderon

Santiag o Calderon of Aurora.

Spokesman Dan Ferrelli said police released the video "to be as transparent as possible during an
open and complicated investigation."

"Community trust results from that transparency and our image to the people we serve and
protect is paramount in our every day operations," Ferrelli said.

Police said two special operations investigators followed a green SUV they’d spotted leaving a
suspected gang house on the 200 block of East Galena Boulevard and tried to pull it over around
9:45 p.m. March 22.

Police said Calderon, who was driving the vehicle, fired at them, wounding one officer in the leg. He
then drove away before crashing at the intersection of Galena Boulevard and Broadway where he
tried to run away and exchanged gunfire with the officers.

Calderon was struck and killed in a parking lot on LaSalle Street between Galena and Downer Place.
When the officers went to render medical aid, they found a gun at Calderon’s side. He was
pronounced dead at the scene.

One of the investigators, Colin Griffin, suffered a gunshot wound to a leg while the other
investigator, Matt Huber, suffered a shoulder injury when he was taking cover. Both were treated
and released from an Aurora hospital.

Huber and Griffin have been placed on paid administrative leave while the Kane County Major
Crimes T ask Force investigates.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Daily Herald

 

Prosecutors clear Las Cruces officer in deadly - Associated Press State
Wire: New Mexico (NM) - May 10, 2018
May 10, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New Mexico (NM)

LAS CRUCES, N.M. (AP) — Prosecutors have cleared a Las Cruces police officer of any wrongdoing
in the deadly shooting of a New Mexico man suspected of homicide.

Dona Ana County prosecutors determined last week that officer Joseph Campa's shooting of 23-
year-old Nathaniel M ontoya

N athaniel Montoya  in mid-February was justified under state law.

Montoya was accused of shooting and killing 29-year-old Abraham Gomez in Las Cruces. An
officer spotted Montoya in a car a day after the shooting.

Police entered into a pursuit, which ended at a Las Cruces gas station where Montoya crashed.
Police say Campa commanded Montoya to show his hands.

Police say Montoya raised a gun and Campa fired several shots. Montoya was pronounced dead at
the scene. Police say a rifle was recovered from the car.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Police: Officer 'felt in fear of his life' - - Las Cruces Sun-News (NM) -
February 22, 2018 - page A6
February 22, 2018 | Las Cruces Sun-News (NM) | Carlos Andres LÃ"pez | Page A6

LAS CRUCES - T he Las Cruces police officer who fatally shot a homicide suspect over the weekend
"felt in fear of his life" before firing at least a dozen gunshots at the suspect who had been armed
with a modified firearm, police revealed Wednesday.

It remains unclear if the suspect, 23-year-old Nathaniel M ontoya
.22-caliber gun at the officer – who was not wearing a body camera during the Saturday incident.
T he officer has since been placed on administrative leave, which is standard procedure .

N athaniel Montoya , had brandished the loaded

T he discovery of the firearm and the fact that no clear video of the shooting exists were among
new details of the incident that were released Wednesday by Las Cruces police Chief Patrick
Gallagher during a news conference.

Gallagher said the shooting investigation is still "in its early stages" and described it as a complex
undertaking because of its ties to the Feb. 16 shooting death of 29-year-old Abraham Gomez.

Gallagher said investigators have determined that Montoya and Gomez were involved in a physical
altercation outside an apartment in the 2300 block of Sambrano Avenue. Police were dispatched to
the scene around 7:30 p.m. after receiving reports of two men fighting, including one suspect who
was described by a 911 caller as "schizo," he said.

"Apparently, these two men were friends, and one of the men was having a dispute with the other
one," Gallagher said, adding that Gomez's body was found unconscious and unresponsive when
police arrived on the scene.

One witness told police that he heard one of the men yell, "No please! What are you doing?"
followed by a gunshot, according to a criminal complaint.

Gomez had one "small-caliber" gunshot wound to his back, Gallagher said, and died at
MountainView Regional Medical Center.

Gallagher said investigators quickly identified the shooting suspect as Montoya, who had
reportedly fled the shooting scene in a Dodge Durango.

"Less than hour later, his vehicle was found on (U.S.) Highway 70 with nobody in it," he said. "A
witness indicated that they saw Mr. Montoya get into a dark-colored minivan and leave the scene."

Gallagher said the minivan had been left on the side off the highway on Friday night because of
"vehicle problems," and that the owner tried to retrieve the vehicle the next day but was unable to
locate it and subsequently filed a stolen vehicle report by noon Saturday.

Around 5 p.m., a police officer spotted Montoya driving the stolen minivan along Galina Drive and
initiated a traffic stop. According to police, the minivan briefly stopped but then fled from the
officer, prompting a high-speed chase that reached speeds up to 60 mph.

Gallagher said Montoya led officers on the chase for about 10 minutes and, at one point, drove the
wrong way on Lohman Avenue before coming to a "halt" around 5:19 p.m. at the Valero's Corner
Store, 1401 E. Lohman Ave.

As Montoya drove into the gas station, he struck another vehicle, which then hit a 33-year-old male
pedestrian who sustained non-life-threatening injuries, Gallagher said.

"At that point, one of our officers approached the vehicle, still occupied by Mr. Montoya. T he
officer fearing for his safety fired his weapon at Mr. Montoya," who died at the scene.

Gallagher said the investigation has revealed that the officer, a seven-year veteran of the Las
Cruces Police Department, fired at least 12 shots at Montoya. Police also said Montoya had not
obeyed commands from the officer to show his hands.

A bystander recording the incident on their phone captured 12 gunshots in quick succession,
followed by another gunshot seconds later.

During a search of the minivan, investigators found a .22-caliber, "magazine-fed" rifle, containing
one round, in the front seat of the vehicle, Gallagher said. Police said the rifle had been modified to
resemble a shotgun.

Gallagher said investigators have not yet been able to determine if Montoya brandished the gun at
the officer. And, it is not known if the recovered gun was used in the shooting that killed Gomez.
Both remain under investigation.

But, Gallagher said, "I know enough at this point that the officer felt in fear of his life."

He also said that the officer – whose name has not been publicly revealed – was not wearing his
body camera during the incident, something that is being investigated internally.

"It's our understanding that (the officer) had responded the night before and was aware of the
situation and was doing investigative work on the homicide," Gallagher said, "and came into work
the next day and never had the chance to retrieve his body camera from the docking station
because we were so busy."

Gallagher also said that at least one surveillance camera at the gas station wasn't working at the
time of the shooting.

"One of (the cameras) that would have provided a very good view of the shooting incident was,
unfortunately, not functioning," he said, adding that footage from two other cameras only show
officers converging on the gas station.

T he shooting is being investigated by the Officer-Involved Incident T ask Force, which includes
investigators from the Las Cruces Police Department, New Mexico State Police, New Mexico State
University Police and the DoÃ±a Ana County Sheriff's Office.

Carlos Andres LÃ"pez can be reached 575-541-5453, carlopez@lcsun-news. com or @carlopez_los
on T witter.

Copyrig ht © 2018 The Las Cruces Sun-News.

 
Officer cleared in February shooting - DA's office - Las Cruces Sun-News
(NM) - May 10, 2018 - page A5
May 10, 2018 | Las Cruces Sun-News (NM) | Sun-News Reports | Page A5

LAS CRUCES - T he Las Cruces police officer who shot and killed a murder suspect in February has
been cleared of any wrongdoing, police said Wednesday.

T he announcement came several days after the 3rd Judicial District Attorney's Office reviewed the
case and determined that Officer Joseph Campa, of the Las Cruces Police Department, acted in
accordance with New Mexico law when he fatally shot 23-year-old Nathaniel M ontoya
17 at a gas station.

N athaniel Montoya  on Feb.

"After an extensive review of this case, we have concluded that the shooting by Officer Joseph
Campa was justified under New Mexico law," District Attorney Mark D'Antonio wrote in a letter
dated May 3. "T his office will not be taking any action against this officer."

T he officer-involved shooting came a day after police said Montoya shot and killed 29-year-old
Abraham Gomez in the 2300 block of Sambrano Avenue.

Police said a witness reported seeing Montoya and Gomez engage in a scuffle outside an
apartment that apparently escalated and resulted in Gomez's Feb. 16 shooting death.

Montoya allegedly fled the scene before police arrived, and Gomez was transported to a Las
Cruces-area hospital, where he was pronounced dead. Police said Gomez suffered one gunshot
wound to his back. Investigators identified Montoya as the primary suspect in Gomez's death.

According to police, Montoya left the Sambrano address in a Dodge Durango, which was was
found abandoned later that night on Bataan Memorial East between Roadrunner Parkway and
Rinconada Boulevard. A witness told officers that the driver of the Durango entered a purple
minivan before it was seen heading east along U.S. 70.

Around noon Feb. 17, investigators learned the minivan was reported stolen. Its owner indicated
the vehicle was not running properly the day before, so it was left on the side of the road.
Investigators believe Montoya exchanged the battery from his Durango into the minivan and was
then able to start it.

Shortly after 5 p.m., an LCPD officer spotted Montoya driving the minivan on Galina Drive and
initiated a traffic stop. T he minivan briefly stopped but then fled from the officer.

T he officer engaged in a pursuit that traveled south on Rinconada, south on Sonoma Ranch
Boulevard and then west in the eastbound lanes of traffic on Lohman Avenue. Campa heard of the
pursuit on his unit's radio and joined the pursuit near Rinconada, police said.

Reaching speeds of 60 miles per hour, the pursuit continued west on Lohman until the minivan
entered the parking lot of the Valero Corner Store, 1401 E. Lohman Ave., and crashed into several
parked vehicles.

Campa pinned his unit to the driver's side of the minivan, police said.

Police said Campa exited his unit and gave several commands for Montoya to show his hands.
Investigators believe that's when Montoya raised a firearm that appeared to be a sawed-off
shotgun, police said. Campa fired several rounds striking Montoya, who was pronounced dead on
the scene.

A bystander recording the incident on their phone captured 12 gunshots in quick succession,
followed by another gunshot seconds later.

Investigators determined that the weapon in Montoya's possession was a .22-caliber rifle that had
been modified to resemble a shotgun. It was found between the two front seats of the minivan,
police said.

A 33-year-old pedestrian, who was between two vehicles in the Valero parking lot, was injured when
the minivan entered the property and struck several parked cars. Officers and a doctor who
happened to be nearby provided first aid until the pedestrian was transported to a local hospital.
His injuries were not life-threatening.

Campa was not wearing a body camera at the time of the shooting, police said.

According to police, Campa had been working earlier in the day as part of the initial shooting
investigation on Sambrano Avenue. He left the station, leaving his lapel camera to charge in its
docking station. Campa went home for a short while and, on his way back to the station for an
overtime assignment, heard radio transmissions of the pursuit. He then joined other officers in the
active pursuit.

T wo surveillance cameras from the Valero store show the minivan speeding into the parking lot
followed by several LCPD units.

Campa, a seven-year veteran of LCPD, was not injured during the incident and was immediately
placed on administrative leave. He returned to duty in late February.

Copyrig ht © 2018 The Las Cruces Sun-News.

 
Homicide suspect fatally shot by Las Cruces police - Associated Press
State Wire: New Mexico (NM) - February 18, 2018
February 18, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New Mexico (NM)

LAS CRUCES, N.M. (AP) — Authorities are investigating a fatal officer-involved shooting involving a
homicide suspect in Las Cruces.

N athaniel Montoya  in connection to the death of
Las Cruces police were looking for 23-year-old Nathaniel M ontoya
a 29-year-old man found unconscious Friday night after some sort of fight between the two men.

Police spotted the suspect's vehicle Saturday afternoon and they say Montoya was the driver and
failed to stop for officers.

A high-speed chase ensued until police say Montoya crashed his van into vehicles at a gas station.

At least one officer fired several rounds and police say Montoya died at the scene.

T hey say a pedestrian was taken to the hospital with non-life threatening injuries.

T he shooting will be investigated by a task force that includes New Mexico State Police.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Suspect dead after police fire on him - Man was - Las Cruces Sun-News
(NM) - February 19, 2018 - page A7
February 19, 2018 | Las Cruces Sun-News (NM) | Sun-News Reports | Page A7

N athaniel Montoya  is suspected of taking a man's life on Friday evening. Fewer

LAS CRUCES - Nathaniel M ontoya
than 24 hours later, Montoya himself was dead, shot multiple times by at least one Las Cruces
police officer.

Montoya, 23, was shot following a vehicle pursuit through city streets that ended in the parking lot
of the Valero gas station, 1401 E. Lohman Ave.

A bystander recording the incident on their phone captured 12 gunshots in quick succession,
followed by another gunshot seconds later.

"At least one LCPD officer fired several rounds that struck the suspect," a Las Cruces Police
Department news release stated. Montoya was pronounced dead at the scene, police said.

Montoya was the primary suspect in homicide a day earlier. Witnesses told police that Montoya
and another man got into a "physical altercation" about 7:30 p.m. Friday in the 2300 block of
Sambrano Avenue.

When officers arrived at the scene of Friday's incident, they found a man unconscious in front of
the residence. Montoya had fled the scene in his personal vehicle, police said.

T he unconscious man, 29, was transported to a local hospital, but didn't survive. Police have not
released the man's name nor the nature of his injuries.

Police believe Montoya ditched his vehicle Friday night along the side of the roadway near Bataan
Memorial East and Riconada Boulevard and hopped in a dark-in-color van, driven by an unknown
person.

Police, following up on a tip, found a van matching that description in the Las Colinas neighborhood
about 5 p.m. Saturday.

Montoya was "positively identified" prior to a traffic stop, police said.

Police said Montoya, driving the van, fled the traffic stop and led police on a high-speed pursuit
throughout the city.

"LCPD officers attempted to PIT  (precision intervention technique) the vehicle but were
unsuccessful," according to a news release.

Montoya drove the van into the Valero parking lot and struck multiple vehicles, police said. One

vehicle was pushed into a pedestrian, police said. T he 33-year-old pedestrian was transported to a
local hospital with non-life-threatening injuries.

Las Cruces police fired at Montoya after the van was stopped.

"T he officer's name will be withheld until the investigation is completed," the news release stated,
indicating it may have been only one officer who fired a weapon.

It's unclear whether Montoya was armed, but a news release sent Saturday morning saying police
were on the lookout for him stated, "N athaniel M ontoya

N athaniel Montoya  should be considered armed."

Police didn't offer any new information on Sunday. It's unclear whether any information will be
released Monday, Presidents Day, a holiday for most city personnel.

Las Cruces police and a multi-agency officer-involved incident task force are investigating. T he task
force includes New Mexico State Police, DoÃ±a Ana County Sheriff's Office, New Mexico State
University Police Department and the LCPD.

Copyrig ht © 2018 The Las Cruces Sun-News.

 
Man shot by police was on probation - 23-year-old - Las Cruces Sun-
News (NM) - February 20, 2018 - page A7
February 20, 2018 | Las Cruces Sun-News (NM) | Diana Alba Soular | Page A7

N athaniel Montoya , the 23-year-old who was shot and killed Saturday by Las
LAS CRUCES - Nathaniel M ontoya
Cruces police after being suspected in a killing a day earlier, was on probation for a 2016 drug
possession charge at the time of the recent incidents.

On March 17, 2016, a Las Cruces police officer pulled over a car that was driving on a center lane
on Picacho Avenue near Solano Drive, according to court records. T he vehicle's windows were
broken out, and the driver, identified as Montoya, had glass on and around him.

Charge filed

T he police officer "noticed that Montoya was very evasive with questions and would ignore some
questions," the report stated. T he officer then asked if Montoya had any weapons, to which
Montoya replied he did have a knife. Montoya consented to a search, and the officer found a small
Ziploc bag with 0.3 grams of methamphetamine in his left front pocket.

A fourth-degree felony charge was filed against Montoya in DoÃ±a Ana County Magistrate Court.
A grand jury indictment, also in March 2016, moved the charge to 3rd Judicial District Court in Las
Cruces.

A trial on the charge was postponed five times, according to court records. T he most-recent date
it was set for was Dec. 14, 2017.

But Montoya pleaded no contest to the charge in late November 2017.

Sentence issued

Former state District Judge Fernando Macias sentenced him to 364 days of probation on Dec. 4 of
last year, according to court records. Macias also granted a credit for 106 days Montoya had been
in "presentence confinement," according to the documents. T hat meant Montoya was set to be
under probation surveillance through Aug. 15 of this year.

As part of the probation terms, Montoya wasn't allowed to possess firearms or deadly weapons;
also, he was prohibited from possessing or using alcohol and illegal drugs, court records state. He
was also obligated to carry out 40 hours of community service.

Montoya signed an order spelling out the terms of his probation on Feb. 6, according to court
records. T en days later, the Las Cruces Police Department announced Montoya was a suspect in a
fight in the 2300 block of Sambrano Drive that proved to be fatal. A 29-year-old man – who has yet
to be identified by police – was found in front of a home with serious injuries. He was taken to a

hospital, where he died, authorities have said.

A day later, police attempted to pull over a purple van matching the description of one Montoya
was last believed to have been in. T he van fled the attempted traffic stop, led police on a vehicle
pursuit around town and darted into the parking lot of Valero Corner Store, 1401 E. Lohman Ave.
Montoya was driving the van, police said.

No new info released

Authorities have said at least one officer fired shots at Montoya, striking him multiple times. He
died at the scene, the parking lot of the Valero.

A bystander across the street from the Valero convenience store captured a video in which 13
gunshots are heard.

LCPD has said it won't release the name of the officer who fired until an investigation into the
incident has ended. T he agency released no new information about the officer-involved shooting
on Monday, which was a holiday for office staff.

In March 2017, a Las Cruces police officer filed a complaint against Montoya for carrying a
concealed, loaded weapon not allowed by state statute, according to court documents. T hat
charge was eventually dismissed for lack of prosecution by the district attorney's office.

Diana Alba Soular may be reached at 575-541-5443, dalba@lcsun-news.com or @AlbaSoular on
T witter.

Copyrig ht © 2018 The Las Cruces Sun-News.

 
Suspect fatally shot by police was on probation - El Paso Times (TX) -
February 20, 2018 - page A8
February 20, 2018 | El Paso Times (TX) | Diana Alba Soular | Page A8

N athaniel Montoya , the 23-year-old who was shot and killed Saturday by Las
LAS CRUCES - Nathaniel M ontoya
Cruces police after being suspected in a killing a day earlier, was on probation for a 2016 drug
possession charge at the time of the recent incidents.

On March 17, 2016, a Las Cruces police officer pulled over a car that was driving on a center lane
on Picacho Avenue near Solano Drive, according to court records. T he vehicle's windows were
broken out, and the driver, identified as Montoya, had glass on and around him.

Charge filed

T he police officer "noticed that Montoya was very evasive with questions and would ignore some
questions," the report stated. T he officer then asked if Montoya had any weapons, to which
Montoya replied he did have a knife. Montoya consented to a search, and the officer found a small
Ziploc bag with 0.3 grams of methamphetamine in his left front pocket.

A fourth-degree felony charge was filed against Montoya in DoÃ±a Ana County Magistrate Court.
A grand jury indictment, also in March 2016, moved the charge to 3rd Judicial District Court in Las
Cruces.

A trial on the charge was postponed five times, according to court records. T he most-recent date
it was set for was Dec. 14, 2017.

But Montoya pleaded no contest to the charge in late November 2017.

Sentence issued

Former state District Judge Fernando Macias sentenced him to 364 days of probation on Dec. 4 of
last year, according to court records. Macias also granted a credit for 106 days Montoya had been
in "presentence confinement," according to the documents. T hat meant Montoya was set to be
under probation surveillance through Aug. 15 of this year.

As part of the probation terms, Montoya wasn't allowed to possess firearms or deadly weapons;
also, he was prohibited from possessing or using alcohol and illegal drugs, court records state. He
was also obligated to carry out 40 hours of community service.

Montoya signed an order spelling out the terms of his probation on Feb. 6, according to court
records. T en days later, the Las Cruces Police Department announced Montoya was a suspect in a
fight in the 2300 block of Sambrano Drive that proved to be fatal. A 29-year-old man – who has yet
to be identified by police – was found in front of a home with serious injuries. He was taken to a

hospital, where he died, authorities have said.

A day later, police attempted to pull over a purple van matching the description of one Montoya
was last believed to have been in. T he van fled the attempted traffic stop, led police on a vehicle
pursuit around town and darted into the parking lot of Valero Corner Store, 1401 E. Lohman Ave.
Montoya was driving the van, police said.

No new info released

Authorities have said at least one officer fired shots at Montoya, striking him multiple times. He
died at the scene, the parking lot of the Valero.

A bystander across the street from the Valero convenience store captured a video in which 13
gunshots are heard.

LCPD has said it won't release the name of the officer who fired until an investigation into the
incident has ended. T he agency released no new information about the officer-involved shooting
on Monday, which was a holiday for office staff.

In March 2017, a Las Cruces police officer filed a complaint against Montoya for carrying a
concealed, loaded weapon not allowed by state statute, according to court documents. T hat
charge was eventually dismissed for lack of prosecution by the district attorney's office.

Diana Alba Soular may be reached at 575-541-5443, dalba@lcsun-news.com or @AlbaSoular on
T witter.

Copyrig ht © 2018 The El Paso Times.

 


Police officer chases murder suspects through Las - Dayton Daily News
(OH) - July 19, 2018
July 19, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Natalie Dreier, Cox Media Group National Content Desk

LAS VEGAS —

It looks like something out of a movie, but it was real life when a police officer in Las Vegas was
involved in a high-speed chase and had to open fire on the escaping vehicle.

T he incident happened July 11 after a traffic stop. Police officers had tried to pull some men in an
SUV over while they investigated a murder, KVVU reported.

T he men fired on police as they drove through the streets. As Officer William Umana negotiated
the turns, keeping up with the truck, he opened fire to try to stop the SUV, Fox News reported.

T he entire chase, and resulting gunfire, was caught on Umana's body camera.

It finally ended when the truck crashed into a wall at an elementary school, Fox News reported.

Rene Nunez left the vehicle and tried to get into the school, which was locked. He was wounded in
the shootout. He was arrested and is now facing charges, including murder, Fox News reported.

T he passenger, Fidel M iranda
on Miranda, KVVU reported. He died at the scene.

Fidel Miranda , tried to move the SUV toward the cruiser, but police opened fire

Both Umana and his partner are on paid administrative leave until an investigation into the
shooting is done, KVVU reported.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 

 
LAS VEGAS — 

Vegas, KLAS reported. 

Metro Police discussed more details from the officer-involved shooting that happened on July 11 in downtown Las

One man was killed by police and another was wounded in the shootout. Assistant Sheriff Tim Kelly said one

officer fired a total of 31 rounds and another fired one during the shootout. The suspects fired 34, Metro said. 

Boa constrictor skin found in Springfield, snake may be on loose 

The officers involved in the shootout with suspects have been identified officers William Umana, 43, and Paul

Solomon, 46. Umana has been with Metro Police for 17 years, and Solomon has been with the department for 12

years. 

The suspects have been identified as Fidel Miranda, 22, and Rene Nunez, 30. 
 
 

Video shows violent police pursuit near downtown - Las Vegas Review-
Journal (NV) - July 17, 2018 - page B001
July 17, 2018 | Las Vegas Review-Journal (NV) | Katelyn Newberg Las Vegas Review-Journal | Page B001

Las Vegas police on Monday released body camera footage of two men weaving through traffic in
an SUV and shooting at officers during a chase near downtown that left one of the men dead and
the other wounded.

T he footage from Wednesday morning shows officer William Umana following Fidel M iranda
and Rene Nunez, 30, and yelling “shots fired, shots fired” into his radio. When another police car
joined the chase, Umana warned the officer to stay back. T he second officer’s car was hit by
bullets at least twice, and the officer could not finish the chase, Metropolitan Police Department
Assistant Sheriff Tim Kelly said at a briefing Monday.

Fidel Miranda , 22,

As the chase neared its end, Umana, 43, pulled his car closer to the SUV and fired 11 shots through
his windshield and seven shots through his open window.

Nunez exited the car as it was still moving near Hollingsworth Elementary School, 1776 E. Ogden
Ave., and ran up steps outside of the school and attempted to enter, but the door was locked, Kelly
said.

Miranda moved to the driver’s seat and attempted to back up toward Umana, Kelly said. Umana
left his car and continued to fire while plainclothes officer Paul Solomon, 46, approached the
passenger-side door.

Solomon fired his shotgun once and hit Miranda. T he SUV came to a stop at the north wall of the
school, and Miranda was handcuffed while medical was called, Kelly said.

Miranda was pronounced dead at the scene. Officers Umana and Solomon were not injured.

Police arrested Nunez, who had gunshot wounds from the pursuit or from a shooting earlier that
morning.

Miranda and Nunez are suspects in the death of 25-year-old Thomas Romero, who was shot
multiple times in the chest Wednesday at a car wash at 1402 N. Eastern Ave., police said. Romero
died that morning at University Medical Center.

While investigating that shooting, police spotted a 2000 Ford Expedition that matched the
description of the suspects’ car just after 9:30 a.m., near 29th Street and Constantine Avenue.

T hen the SUV sped off. Miranda and Nunez raced through oncoming traffic — along Mojave Road,
Eastern Avenue and Charleston Boulevard — while firing at police, Kelly said. T hey fired 34 rounds
in five volleys during the pursuit, he said, while officers fired 31 shots.

One civilian’s car was struck by gunfire, Kelly said.

Solomon, the plainclothes officer, was not wearing a body camera.

Kelly praised Umana and Solomon as heroic.

“T he officer could have backed off, but he didn’t,” he said, referring to Umana.

Nunez is accused of stealing the SUV on May 20 in North Las Vegas, Kelly said, and one of the
guns Nunez used during the chase had been reported stolen May 20.

Miranda and Nunez had aliases, “Cabezon” and “Kreeepper,” respectively, which could be gang-
related, he said.

Nunez faces multiple charges of murder with a deadly weapon and attempted murder with a
deadly weapon. He remained in the Clark County Detention Center on Monday without bail.

Contact Katelyn Newberg at knewberg@reviewjournal.com or 702-383-0240. Follow @k_newberg
on T witter.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Las Veg as Review-Journal

 

 
Click here for updates on this story 

    Las Vegas, NV (KTNV) -- Las Vegas police have identified the two men involved in the shootout with police last

week as 22-year-old Fidel Miranda and 30-year-old Rene Nunez. 

The men's mug shots and photos of their guns were released during a press briefing July 16. The police officers

involved in the shooting were identified as 43-year-old William Umana and 46-year-old Paul Solomon. The shootout

happened on July 11 in the downtown area of Las Vegas. 

Around 7:25 a.m. July 11, patrol officers responded to a shooting at 1402 N. Eastern Ave. A man, who has been

identified as 25-year-old Thomas Romero, was shot multiple times at a car wash by an adult male who fled the

area in a large black Ford Expedition with large tires driven by another man. 

Officers observed a vehicle matching the description of the vehicle involved in the earlier shooting incident at

approximately 9:30 a.m. near 29th Street and Constantine Avenue. When the officers attempted to stop the

vehicle, the driver took off and a chase began. During the course of a lengthy pursuit, the suspects shot at officers

several times and Officer Umana returned fire, including shooting through his windshield multiple times and out of

his open car window. 

Nunez jumped out of the moving vehicle near Hollingsworth Elementary School near Ogden Avenue and 18th

Street and attempted to escape by running into the school. 

Miranda was hit by a shotgun bullet fired by Officer Solomon. After that, the vehicle came to a stop and Miranda

was handcuffed while medical was called. He died at the scene. 

The police officers were then able to arrest Nunez, who was suffering gunshot wounds. It is not known if he was

Nunez is still in a hospital. He has been booked in absentia on several charges, including murder and attempted

Police said during the press briefing that Officer Umana fired 31 rounds and Officer Solomon fired 1 round during

shot during the chase or earlier in the morning. 

murder of a police officer. 

the incident. The suspects fired 34 rounds total. 

Police pursuits can be dangerous for both officers and the public and reactions to the video have been varied.

Most people seem to support the actions of the police officers but there are those who believe that the officers

acted irresponsibly. So 13 Action News asked someone who specializes in this type of training to weigh in on this

video. 

Retired Captain Tom Gleason of PursuitSAFETY, a national organization that focuses on police pursuits, tells 13

Action News he typically doesn't recommend officers fire from moving vehicles. However, Gleason said this

situation posed a real threat to officers. Gleason has been a trainer in law enforcement for 25 years. 

Please note: This content carries a strict local market embargo. If you share the same market as the contributor of

this article, you may not use it on any platform. 
 
 


Killing at Las Vegas car wash may have been gang- - Las Vegas Review-
Journal (NV) - July 18, 2018 - page B004
July 18, 2018 | Las Vegas Review-Journal (NV) | Rio Lacanlale Las Vegas Review-Journal | Page B004

T he killing of a 25-year-old man at a car wash that led to a violent shootout between two suspects
and Las Vegas police last week may have been gang-related, records show.

T homas Romero, who was shot dead early July 11 at a self-service car wash at 1402 N. Eastern
Ave., was an FT C gang member, according to a police document released T uesday. T he suspects
in his death — Fidel M iranda
police said.

Fidel Miranda , 22, and Rene Nunez, 30 — have possible gang-related aliases,

Details surrounding motive have not been released, but because of Romero’s gang ties, the
Metropolitan Police Department’s gang unit led the initial investigation.

Footage captured that morning by four security cameras placed Romero near the rear passenger
side of a stolen black Ford Expedition inside the car wash bay while Nunez washed the vehicle on
the driver’s side, Nunez’s arrest report showed.

In the footage, Miranda can be seen walking up to Romero just before 7:25 a.m. as he fired a
weapon, the report said. Almost immediately after the gunfire, Nunez also drew a weapon with his
right hand, his arrest report shows.

While Nunez “continued to hold his firearm,” the two men spoke briefly before entering the Ford,
with Nunez in the driver’s seat and Miranda in the front passenger seat, the report said.

“Both Nunez and (Miranda) appeared calm and walked at a normal pace,” detectives detailed in
their report.

After the shooting, police spotted a Ford Expedition matching the suspects’ vehicle description
near downtown Las Vegas, prompting a shootout as police chased the SUV. During the chase, the
suspects fired at marked patrol vehicles, police said.

Officer William Umana, 43, returned fire with 11 shots through his windshield and seven shots
through his open window, Metro announced Monday, while officer Paul Solomon, 46, fired his
shotgun once at Miranda. Metro chase video

T he shootout left Miranda dead and Nunez injured. Nunez survived and faces charges of murder,
attempted murder with a deadly weapon on a protected person and several other gun charges,
records show.

Neither officer was injured.

Contact Rio Lacanlale at rlacanlale@reviewjournal.com or 702-383-0381. Follow @riolacanlale on
T witter.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Las Veg as Review-Journal

 
Las Vegas officer returns fire at suspects while - Evening News and
Tribune (Jeffersonville-New Albany, IN) - July 17, 2018
July 17, 2018 | Evening News and Tribune (Jeffersonville-New Albany, IN) | Staff Writer

LAS VEGAS (KSNV/CNN) – Las Vegas Police released the body camera video from a police officer
who chased two men suspected of killing another.

One of the suspects is dead and the another is in custody after the two attempted to flee from Las
Vegas police.

Authorities say the two men were suspected of being involved in a homicide hours before the
chase began.

A police camera recorded the intense pursuit from the front seat of a metro patrol car.

For roughly four minutes, Officer William Umana tried to stop a pair of suspected killers - Fidel
Fidel
M iranda  and Rene Nunez. T he pair fired at police 34 times.
M iranda

While driving, Umana shoots back at the two men, blowing holes in his own windshield.

T he pursuit eventually ends near an elementary school when the suspects crash their vehicle.

Miranda, police say, tried to reverse the vehicle towards officers. He was shot and killed.

Nunez ran away and tried to hide on school property where he was eventually caught and arrested.

"When you look at that video you get a clear picture of what officers were dealing with that day. In
my opinion, they showed bravery and professionalism, heroics we come to expect from our
officers," Las Vegas Metro Police Department Assistant Sheriff Tim Kelly said.

According to police, Miranda and Nunez were well armed and suspected in a homicide from just
two hours prior to the pursuit.

According to Kelly, LVMPD policy allows officers to pursue and fire at fleeing suspects if there is
imminent danger to others.

"T he officer could have backed off - but he didn't. He stuck with it knowing what he was dealing
with," Kelly said.

Copyright 2018 KSNV, LVMPD via CNN. All rights reserved.

Copyrig ht 2018, Evening  News and Tribune / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 
Officers involved in fatal shooting of homicide - Las Vegas Review-
Journal (NV) - July 14, 2018
July 14, 2018 | Las Vegas Review-Journal (NV) | Rio Lacanlale Las Vegas Review-Journal

Authorities on Friday identified the police officers involved in a series of violent encounters this
week that left two dead and one wounded near downtown Las Vegas.

T he violence began about 7:30 a.m. Wednesday with the killing of 25-year-old Thomas Romero,
who police have said was shot multiple times in the chest at a car wash at 1402 N. Eastern Ave. He
died hours later at University Medical Center of multiple gunshot wounds, the Clark County coroner
determined.

T he homicide investigation — the 90th this year for the Metropoltian Police Department —
sparked a police chase a few hours later that ended with a volley of gunfire from police officers,
causing Hollingsworth Elementary School to go into a “hard lockdown” and closing major roads in
the downtown area.

T he suspects in the fatal shooting of Romero, later identified as 22-year-old Fidel M iranda
30-year-old Rene Nunez, fled the scene in a black Ford Expedition. About two hours later, police
spotted a vehicle matching that description near 29th Street and Constantine Avenue, police said.

Fidel Miranda  and

Officers attempted to stop the SUV, but the suspects sped away, Metro Capt. Yesenia Yatomi said
at a press conference Wednesday. During the chase, the suspects fired at marked patrol vehicles,
police said. One officer exchanged gunfire before the Ford crashed into a wall at the elementary
school at 1776 E. Ogden Ave., near 18th Street.

School locked down

About 100 children from kindergarten to fourth grade were on campus for summer school at the
time of the shootout, Clark County School District spokeswoman Melinda Malone said Wednesday.
T he school went on lockdown as soon as the disturbance was reported and remained so until
dismissal at 1 p.m.

After the crash, Nunez took off onto school grounds but was later found with a gunshot wound
and taken into custody. He was treated at University Medical Center with survivable injuries,
although it was not clear whether he had been wounded by police or shot prior to the police chase.

No officers were injured during the incident.

Nunez was booked Tuesday into the Clark County Detention Center on nine charges, including two
counts of murder, three of attempted murder and one of a driver disobeying an officer resulting in
death or bodily harm, jail records show.

Court records show that Nunez has a criminal history in Clark County dating back to at least 2010,
when he pleaded guilty to assault with a deadly weapon. He also pleaded guilty in 2011 to robbery
and larceny from a person in 2014, according to court records.

Miranda at first remained inside the SUV after it hit the wall but attempted to flee shortly
afterward, police said. As he was running, police fatally shot him outside the elementary school,
where he was pronounced dead. He died of multiple gunshot wounds, according to the coroner’s
office.

It is not clear whether Miranda had a criminal history in Clark County.

Officers named

Metro on Friday identified the officers who fired their weapons as 37-year-old William Umana and
46-year-old Paul Solomon. Both are assigned to the tourist safety division of Metro’s downtown
area command and have been placed on paid leave pending the outcome of the investigation into
their use of force.

Umana joined Metro in August 2001 and Solomon in September 2005, according to Metro.

In August 2016, Solomon was commended for exemplary service by Metro after he and another
officer searched through debris from a fiery bus crash to recover a foreign tourist’s wedding ring.
T he tourist died in the crash and the officers presented the ring to the tourist’s widow.

Wednesday’s incident was the 10th officer-involved shooting of 2018 and the fifth fatal shooting.
At this time last year, six of the department’s 10 police shootings were fatal, according to Las
Vegas Review-Journal records.

Further details are expected to be released by Metro within 72 hours of the incident.

Contact Rio Lacanlale at rlacanlale@reviewjournal.com or 702-383-0381. Follow @riolacanlale on
T witter.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Las Veg as Review-Journal

 

 
July 19--Once gunfire exploded just outside a car wash bay in broad daylight, the pair of slaying suspects were so

nonchalant about fleeing that it gave witnesses in nearby businesses time to exit, take a peek and identify the

That description -- two hours later on July 11 -- led to a running shootout with dozens of exchanged rounds

Body-camera footage of the chase and gunfight, which left Fidel Miranda, 23, dead and Rene Nunez, 30, wounded,

black Ford Expedition they drove away in. 

between the suspects and Metro Police. 

has garnered national attention. 

recover, is accused of murder. 

The slaying that precipitated it may have been gang-related, according to police. Nunez, who is expected to

Officers were dispatched about 7:30 a.m. to the car wash in 1400 block of Eastern Avenue where they encountered

Thomas Romero Jr., who'd been pumped with bullets, police said. He died at University Medical Center. 

At least five witnesses told police that the sound of gunfire directed their attention to the shooting scene, where

they saw two suspects leave in a black SUV. One of them even described one of the suspects bending to pick up

That same witness rushed to Romero, asking him if he knew who shot him. But "the victim shook his head as if to

Footage from the car wash revealed that and more. It captured Romero, Nunez and apparently Miranda, too,

Romero was standing toward the back of the Expedition, which was being washed by Nunez, when one of the

suspects -- possibly Miranda -- approached him in a shooting stance and opened fire, police said. Nunez also drew

a gun, and then conversed with the shooter before they walked toward Romero who was lying motionless. 

"Both Nunez and the unidentified suspect appeared calm and walked at a normal pace," police wrote in the report.

"The suspect bent over and removed an unknown object from the waist of Romero Jr. before returning back to the

Expedition." 

The report also shed a few more details on the subsequent chase and shootout. 

About 30 minutes after the initial shooting was reported, a Metro sergeant spotted the stolen Expedition on the

road, which description was broadcast over the radio, but lost it. 

During the chase around 9:30 a.m., Nunez, who was driving and shooting, accelerated well into the 70-mph range,

police said. In the hospital, he tested positive for methamphetamine. 

Nunez, a convicted felon who was booked in absentia at the Clark County Detention Center, is being held on one

count of murder, three counts each of attempted murder and assault with a deadly weapon on a protected person,

and one count each of robbery, and possession, and carrying a concealed weapon by a convicted felon. 

something off the ground. 

say no," police said. 

according to the report. 

CREDIT: By Ricardo Torres-Cortez 
 
 




 
July 31--Numerous organizations are uniting for a protest Wednesday night at the spot where Joseph Santos was

shot and killed by a South Whitehall Township police officer Saturday. 

Scheduled for 5:30 p.m. at Lincoln Avenue and Hamilton Boulevard, the protest is being organized by Make the

Road PA, which advocates for Latino communities, along with the Allentown NAACP; the Allentown Coalition for

Economic Dignity; the faith-based Nehemiah Collaborative; NextGen Pennsylvania, a political action group;

Women's March, Pennsylvania chapter; and Juventud en Camino, a human services organization. 

An officer responding to a "mental issue" around 5:45 p.m. fired five shots when Santos failed to follow the

officer's repeated commands to "get on the ground," videos of the shooting show. 

Santos, 44, of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., did not appear to be armed in the videos. 

In a prepared statement, Ashleigh Strange, spokesperson for Make the Road PA, called the shooting "senseless"

and an "act of extreme police brutality." 

"Our members stand with the family and all families that face brutality at the hands of an overzealous and

destructive police force." the statement said. "We remain vigilant while we wait for more details." 

On a Facebook page for "Lehigh Valley: End Police Brutality," more than 200 people responded by early Tuesday

afternoon that they would attend the protest. 

The officer, who was put on paid leave, has not been identified. 

State police and the Lehigh County Homicide Task Force police are investigating the shooting. 
 
 


 
As prosecutors and defense lawyers prepare for the case against the South Whitehall Township police officer who

fatally shot an unarmed man 15 days ago, one aspect of the officer's life - his military career - may take a central

role in explaining the split-second calculus he used in deciding to open fire. 

No one but the officer, Jonathan Roselle, can say what was going through his mind at the time he shot Joseph

Santos, 44, of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., July 28. 

But experts who evaluate police and military personnel say it's possible his police officer training to protect and

defend life was overtaken in the heat of the moment by the more intensive combat training he received as a

soldier. 

"Military training is an incredibly emotive, gut-level experience," said Peter Kraska, an Eastern Kentucky University

professor who has written on police and military training. "It's meant to deprogram someone's natural hesitancy to

take a life and get them in a mindset - cognitively and emotionally - where they can do that without a second

thought. And going through a police academy is not going to rout that out." 

The speculation by Kraska and others was not meant to criticize soldiers, police or their training. Indeed, military

training, with its leadership skills and discipline, is desirable in police work, Kraska said. 

"I know from my own experience that ex-soldiers make excellent police officers," he said. 

But it also is true that police have become "more military-like," Kraska said, citing the "extreme levels of fear" police

SWAT teams can incite in the public. 

Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin last week charged Roselle, 33, with voluntary manslaughter in the

shooting death of Santos on Hamilton Boulevard, across from Dorney Park. Santos was seen jumping onto moving

cars along Hamilton Boulevard, and when Roselle responded and ordered him to get on the ground, Santos refused

and continued walking toward the officer. Roselle fired five times, killing Santos. 

Roselle's lawyer, Gavin Holihan, said he will explore the role his client's military background may have played in the

shooting. Roselle served in Afghanistan in the infantry, he said. 

He declined to discuss Roselle's training as a soldier or police officer, but said Roselle's decision to shoot was a

"judgment call" based on a fear of imminent death or serious bodily injury. Holihan said Roselle believes the fatal

shooting was legally justified. 

Philip Stinson, a Bowling Green State University criminologist who has been tracking police shootings since 2005,

said he too wonders which training Roselle relied on when he drew his gun on Santos. Stinson said he has thought

for years about whether similarly trained officers can "undo those experiences and training that they had with the

military." 

Videos taken by bystanders of Santos' walking away from Roselle's police cruiser, turning around and walking back

while ignoring commands to stop, led Stinson to recall other scenes of police officers' seeming to fire quickly. 

"I'm looking at patterns over time," Stinson said. "We see it time and again in some of these videos. It's hard to

explain their decision-making processes." 

However, putting the action in a different setting makes Roselle's decision-making understandable, he said. 

"If it were a military situation, the shooting makes sense," Stinson said 

A U.S. Department of Defense spokesman said the department does not discuss the rules of engagement for

soldiers in Afghanistan, which would define when a soldier's use of force would be warranted. 

Allentown police declined to be interviewed about training at the police academy, which Roselle completed in

December, according to Martin. 

Pennsylvania officials said the most recent police academy curriculum requires 23 weeks of training, of which 26

hours are devoted to behavior management and crisis intervention, which includes recognizing people with special

needs and responding to people with mental illness. Lehigh County 911 dispatches just before the shooting

recorded Roselle discussing a man, Santos, with possible "mental issues." 

South Whitehall police Chief Glen A. Dorney also declined to comment, citing the investigation and the potential for

civil litigation. 

Researchers have spent little time assessing the impact of military service on police forces, according to a 2016

study by The Marshall Project, a journalism nonprofit focusing on criminal justice. That's even though 1 in every 5

police officers is a veteran, it said. 

A study by the Pew Research Center last year of nearly 8,000 police officers found that white, male officers

working in large cities - and having military experience - were the characteristics defining those most likely to have

fired their service weapon on the job. Only 27 percent of officers ever fire their gun while on the job, it said. 

A 2013 study in the International Journal of Emergency Mental Health found that police officers without a military

background experienced significantly more physically and psychologically threatening job-related events than

veterans. The findings, it said, "suggest that those officers with prior military experience may be better prepared for

However, it also found that police without military service used effective stress-reducing practices more often than

the stress of police work." 

police officers with a military background. 

responses. 

Psychologists who work with police and military personnel said the situation Roselle faced could provoke different

Eugene O'Donnell, a former officer with the New York Police Department who teaches at John Jay College of

Criminal Justice, said police know a situation can deteriorate immediately, even with an unarmed man. He noted

two cases in the last month - in Weymouth, Mass., and Fort Myers, Fla. - when an unarmed man gained control of a

police gun and fatally shot an officer. 

Besides military experience, O'Donnell said, Roselle's lack of police experience and the short time he spent working

by himself are issues to consider. In announcing the charges, Martin also mentioned that Roselle was "relatively

inexperienced." 

making, he said. 

"At the end of the day, you are talking about a human ... who has at least two sets of significant life experiences,"

O'Donnell said, referring to Roselle's military and police work. "Two very different enterprises." 

Matt Guller of the Institute for Forensic Psychology in Oakland, N.J., said a military background is "a double-edged

sword" for police officers. Their training is superior, but it may not be appropriate at times for police decision-

Some military veterans also return home with post-traumatic stress disorder, which can be triggered by police

work, Guller said. There has been no suggestion that Roselle experienced PTSD. 

Hiring practices often favor veterans, whose service has long been valued by public and private employers. Civil

service rules in many jurisdictions give preference to veterans, and the Trump administration last year boosted

federal efforts to help veterans make the transition to law enforcement with the signing of the American Law

Enforcement Heroes Act. 

For Roselle's court case, it's a long way from the filing of charges to a conviction, Stinson said. Stinson keeps a

database of police shootings that shows officers have been convicted of unjustified shootings 32 times since

2005 - or less than three times a year on average - although police fatally shoot roughly 1,000 people a year. 

tdarragh@mcall.com 

Twitter @tmdarragh 

610-820-6691 

EVENTS TODAY 

* Supporters of South Whitehall police officer Jonathan Roselle will meet for a rally at 2 p.m. by the Comfort Inn

Suites on Hamilton Boulevard, near the shooting site. 

* At the same hour, community groups will hold an interfaith memorial service for Joseph Santos at Resurrected

Life Church, 144 N. Ninth St., Allentown. 

Credit: By Tim Darragh - Of The Morning Call - tdarragh@mcall.com;Twitter @tmdarragh;610-820-6691 
 
 


 
Before Joseph Santos ended up on Hamilton Boulevard reportedly harassing motorists on July 28, he climbed a

Dorney Park fence where he lost his shoes, a Lehigh County homicide task force detective testified Thursday as he

detailed parts of the investigation into Santos’ death, including autopsy findings that revealed a heroin substance

Santos was at the amusement park on July 28 for a birthday party, but left the park for unknown reasons, his

Minutes after leaving the park, the 44-year-old New Jersey man was killed in a confrontation with rookie South

in his system. 

relatives had previously told The Morning Call. 

Whitehall Township officer Jonathan Roselle. 

examiner Barbara Bollinger. 

Detective James Bruchak attended the Santos autopsy, performed three days after the shooting by medical

The autopsy concluded Santos was shot five times, twice in the head and three times in the torso, he testified. 

But besides determining the cause and manner of death, the autopsy report also detailed the postmortem

toxicology findings, which showed Santos had five controlled substances in his system, Bruchak testified. 

Blood tests found methadone, codeine, morphine and hydromorphone in Santos’ system, he said. 

A vitreous exam, which tests the fluid in the eyeball, also found the presence of 6-monoacetylmorphine, a

metabolite of heroin, he said. The Mayo Clinic says the metabolite is a “definitive indication of heroin use” and “has

a very short half-life.” 

Relatives of Santos had previously told the Morning Call that Santos had a history with drugs but had gained

sobriety in recent years and helped others get off drugs. He had been on probation for a drug possession charge in

New Jersey at the time of his death. 

Gavin Holihan, Roselle’s attorney, questioned Bruchak about the legality of the controlled substances and the

detective responded that, other than heroin, they could either be obtained legally or illegally. The detective also

testified he does not know how Santos obtained the drugs. 

Bruchak also testified that the substances could be taken separately or mixed with heroin. 

“That would have then made them illegal,” Holihan asked. 

Bruchak answered it would. 

During his argument to have Roselle’s charges dismissed, Holihan said the heroin substance showed that Santos

was under the influence and could have possessed extraordinary strength along with a high threshhold to pain. He

said the drugs also could have caused Santos to ignore commands the Roselle gave him to get off his cruiser. 

The judge sent the charge to county court where Roselle now faces trial. 

mgamiz@mcall.com 

Twitter @mannypantalones 

610-820-6595 

Credit: Manuel Gamiz Jr. 
 



 
Joseph Santos and his fiancee joined relatives Saturday at Dorney Park and Wildwater Kingdom for a birthday

celebration. 

By the end of the day, Santos, 44, was dead —struck down by multiple shots from a South Whitehall Township

police officer’s gun. His girlfriend, Juliana Valenzuela, unaware he had left the park, became increasingly frantic to

find him, as roller coasters and their riders roared and shrieked overhead. When the park closed, Valenzuela filed a

missing persons report with park security and drove home to New Jersey wracked with worry. 

“I was crying,” Valenzuela said. “My stomach turned.” 

Certain something was wrong, Valenzuela called the hospital she and her sons passed on Interstate 78, but no one

there could ease her fear. 

It wasn’t until Sunday morning that Valenzuela learned of the shooting. A co-worker sent her a witness’ video, by

then going viral across the internet, and she saw what had happened to the man she called her sweetheart and

Valenzuela said she spent the next two days crying, mourning Santos. But speaking on the steps of the apartment

they shared in Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., with her three teenage sons, two whose birthdays they were celebrating at

Dorney Park, her grief was masked by a stoic determination to find justice for Santos, whose killing, she said, was

“You don’t shoot someone multiple times in the stomach and drop him when he has his hands in the air,”

best friend. 

unjustifiable. 

Valenzuela said. 

A South Whitehall Township police officer, responding to a report of a person interfering with traffic, encountered

Santos around 5:45 p.m. on Hamilton Boulevard across from Dorney Park. Witnesses said he was jumping on

moving vehicles and hanging onto the police car before the officer stopped. 

On the police scanner, the officer asked for backup for a possible “mental issue.” 

In videos, Santos is seen walking away from the police car, then reversing course and walking toward the officer,

who is heard demanding that he “get on the ground.” Santos, who did not appear to be armed, can be seen raising

a hand, then lowering it before five shots ring out and he collapses. 

Santos’ sister, Iris Guzman, who lives in Reading, said she can’t imagine her brother so out of control, as witnesses

described. She knew him as funny, outgoing and affectionate. She acknowledged he dealt with drug issues in the

past but said he wasn’t known for bizarre behavior and didn’t have mental health issues. 

Santos worked at a number of part-time and seasonal jobs in warehouses and on construction sites, Valenzuela

said, but struggled to overcome others’ judgments about his looks. 

“People look at you and they stereotype you,” Valenzuela said of Santos, a burly, bearded and tattooed man. “In

reality, he was a real good person.” 

Luis Santos said his brother’s view of the world was shaped by the impact of drug use on those around him. 

“We live in a drug-infested area,” Luis Santos said of the downtown Paterson, N.J., neighborhood where Joseph,

Luis and Guzman grew up blocks from the Arrow Fastener stapler factory where both of their parents worked after

moving to New Jersey from Puerto Rico. “We used to see our friends die from drug overdoses.” 

Joseph Santos gave talks about the harm of drug use at schools and treatment groups, Luis Santos said. 

Because their mother was dealing with addiction during their childhood, Guzman said she mostly raised Santos,

though she was only four years his senior. That bond, she said, makes his death particularly painful. 

“I keep crying. I can hardly sleep. All I keep thinking is why,” she said. 

At the time of his death, Santos was on probation, having pleaded guilty to drug possession in June after a traffic

stop in Cranford, N.J. Valenzuela said those drugs were years old, forgotten in the pocket of a coat. Her fiance, she

said, was clean. 

Valenzuela and Luis Santos said they expect to attend a vigil Wednesday night for Santos near the shooting scene.

Scheduled for 5:30 p.m. at Lincoln Avenue and Hamilton Boulevard, the event, which is also referred to in a news

release as a protest, is being organized by Make the Road PA, which advocates for Latino communities, along with

the Allentown NAACP; the Allentown Coalition for Economic Dignity; the faith-based Nehemiah Collaborative;

NextGen Pennsylvania, a political action group; Women’s March, Pennsylvania chapter; and Juventud en Camino,

Make the Road’s youth organization. 

“This act of extreme police brutality is not a fluke or an accident, but part of the police system that regularly works

to detain, deport and kill black and brown people across the country,” Make the Road said in the release. “Our

members stand with the family and all families that face brutality at the hands of an overzealous and destructive

police force. We remain vigilant while we wait for more details.” 

The Lehigh County coroner’s office Tuesday said Santos died from “multiple gunshot wounds,” but did not say how

many. Santos’ death was ruled a homicide, which means he was killed by someone else, not that the act was

criminal. Coroner Scott Grim said his office is awaiting the results of toxicology tests on Santos, which could take

weeks. 

The officer, whose identity has not been released, is on paid leave while state police investigate the shooting.

South Whitehall Township Commissioner Mark Pinsley said Tuesday he’ll ask Lehigh County District Attorney Jim

Martin to refer the investigation to the state attorney general’s office to avoid the perception of bias. 

“I want to ensure that there is a proper, unbiased and transparent investigation conducted and no appearance of

conflict,” Pinsley, a state Senate candidate, said in a prepared statement. “The best way to ensure public faith in

our justice system is for a neutral party to conduct the investigation.” 

Pinsley said he plans to attend the vigil before the South Whitehall commissioners’ regular meeting convenes at 7

p.m. He is the only township official to comment publicly on the shooting. 

Valenzuela said she met Sunday morning with Lehigh County Detective James Bruchak, deputy coroner Michael

Bartholomew and state police Trooper Thomas Rummerfield, who told her only that there was an altercation

between Santos and the police officer. 

the investigation. 

When Valenzuela pressed for more details, the officials told her they couldn’t discuss the case further because of

The only reason Valenzuela could think that Santos would leave Dorney Park was to buy cigarettes. But she can’t

make sense of the reports that Santos was interfering with traffic and grabbing passing cars. According to one

account, he ripped a window from a car. 

Luis Santos also said the behavior described by authorities was unlike his brother. 

“There were times when he would get serious, but he was never a violent person,” Luis Santos said. 

Guzman said the family wants answers from police. 

“What was that cop thinking? What was going through his head?” she asked. “Why didn’t he use a Taser, you could

see in the video he wasn’t armed. What threat could he really have been to them?” 

swojcik@mcall.com 

Twitter @Sarah_M_Wojcik 

610-778-2283 

Christine Schiavo contributed to this story.  

Credit: Peter Hall, Sarah M. Wojcik, Laurie Mason Schroeder 
 
 


 
A month after a South Whitehall Township police officer fatally shot an unarmed Latino man, the local chapter of

the NAACP has issued an advisory that warns minority citizens who travel to the township or Dorney Park for the

Labor Day weekend to be on heightened alert when dealing with police. 

In the rare move, the travel advisory is intended to make people of color aware for their personal safety when

interacting with law enforcement and Dorney Park security, according to a statement by the NAACP Vice President

Tony Phillips and NAACP Secretary Barbara Redmond. 

Township officials called the travel advisory "unwarranted," adding that it "improperly denigrates the men and

women of the Police Department who have dedicated their lives to serving and protecting our community." Dorney

Park officials said "we want to assure everyone that all are welcome at Dorney Park, and we invite everyone to join

us as we celebrate the last official days of the summer and launch our popular fall events." 

The local chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People identifies the July 28 fatal

shooting of Joseph Santos, an unarmed Latino man, by a township officer as one of the primary reasons for the

travel advisory. 

Santos, a 44-year-old New Jersey man, was at the amusement park for a birthday party and unexpectedly left.

About 5:45 p.m., he ended up on the 3700 block of Hamilton Boulevard acting in a bizarre manner, jumping and

pounding on cars, ripping a window off a vehicle and asking some motorists for help, according to authorities and

videos that captured the incident. 

Jonathan Roselle, a rookie police officer, was the first to respond to the call. Before backup arrived, Santos

approached his police sport utility vehicle, banged on the driver-side window, then climbed on the SUV's hood and

pounded on the windshield, court records say. 

Santos eventually started to walk away from the stopped police car, but reversed course when Roselle repeatedly

shouted for him to get on the ground. Before Santos could reach the SUV, Roselle fired five shots and killed him,

authorities said. 

not act out of malice. 

Roselle was later charged with voluntary manslaughter charge, a felony punishable by up to 20 years in prison. 

In announcing the charges, Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin called the shooting "an act of a relatively

inexperienced officer," maintaining that he does not believe race played a role in the shooting and that Roselle did

A few days after the shooting, about 100 people gathered for a vigil to support Santos' family and raise concerns

about police violence against people of color. 

The NAACP branch also said they are aware of other complaints of white police officers and Dorney Park security

officers following and harassing citizens of color, including one that led to the filing of a federal lawsuit for racial

profiling in June. "Instances of these nature are widely known among minority citizens of South Whitehall

Township," said Redmond, who is also a township resident. 

In that case, Benjamin Slater of Philadelphia said he was with three friends at Dorney Park on June 17 when a

security guard approached him, telling him he matched the description of a pickpocket. The guard demanded

Slater empty his pockets. Slater was then taken to the security office where he was met by South Whitehall police

officers who determined he wasn't the suspect, according to the lawsuit. 

Despite that, he was removed from the park, the suit alleges. 

"The NAACP Allentown Branch will consider lifting the instant travel advisory when the township and Dorney Park

implement reforms and remains available to these parties to assist in identifying required reforms," the statement

reads. 

claimed by the NAACP." 

In responding to the travel advisory, Township Manager Renee C. Bickel said the police department does not

discriminate against minorities, either in its hiring practices or in the conduct of its day-to-day operations. She

added that "the township is not aware of complaints about officers following and harassing citizens of color as

Last summer, the NAACP issued the first ever travel advisory in the organization's 108-year history, warning people

of color that their civil rights could be violated in Missouri after the state passed a law that made it more difficult

to sue for housing or employment discrimination. 

mgamiz@mcall.com 

Twitter @mannypantalones 

610-820-6595 

Credit: By Manuel Gamiz Jr. - Of The Morning Call - mgamiz@mcall.com;Twitter @mannypantalones;610-820-6595 

Caption: Joseph Santos, moments before the shooting July 28 along Hamilton Boulevard in South Whitehall

Township. 

Contributed photo 
 
 



 
Joseph Santos was alone when he collapsed Saturday on a patch of grass along Hamilton Boulevard, dead from a

South Whitehall Township police officer's bullets. 

More than a hundred people stood at that site on Wednesday, praying, wailing and shouting in protest over his

death. They were there to support his grieving family. They were there to honor Santos, who was a father and a

friend. They were there as people of color who feel their communities are too often targeted by police violence. 

Most of all, they were there to remember the man who was killed shortly after celebrating birthdays with his family

at Dorney Park and Wildwater Kingdom across the street. 

"Say his name," someone shouted as the protesters marched down Hamilton Boulevard. 

"Joseph Santos," the crowd returned. 

The protest was organized by Make the Road PA, which advocates for Latino communities, and other area activist

groups, including the NAACP. The protesters held their signs toward passing traffic, chanting against police

brutality, before gathering around Santos' friends and family. 

Santos' brother looked out at the crowd and asked: Would it have been different if "Joey" was white. 

"If he was white, would they have gone a different route?" Luis Santos asked. "Yes," they shouted. 

Ruth Santos, who was once married to Joseph Santos, tried to address the crowd but was overcome and collapsed

into tears. 

In the march down Hamilton Boulevard, she clutched his picture, then knelt with his family around flowers, signs

and pictures of Santos at the spot where he lay bleeding Saturday night. 

Around 5:45 p.m. that night, a South Whitehall police officer requested backup for a possible "mental issue" after

responding to a report of a man interfering with traffic on Hamilton Boulevard by Dorney Park. Witnesses said the

man was jumping on moving vehicles, and videos posted on social media show him hanging off a police car. 

In a witness' video obtained by The Morning Call, Santos is leaning against a police car, walks away, and then turns

around to approach the police car. He does not appear to be armed. The officer is heard saying repeatedly "get on

the ground" as Santos moves toward him. The officer then fires five shots and Santos collapses. In the backdrop,

roller coasters roar at Dorney Park, where his fiancee, Juliana Valenzuela, frantically searched for him until the park

closed, not realizing he had left. 

The next day, a friend sent her a video of the shooting. She described Santos' death as "unjustifiable." 

The shooting resonated with Yolanda Valentin of Salisbury Township, who attended Wednesday's protest with her

husband, Angel, to let Santos' family know they are not alone. She questioned why the officer went for his gun

instead of employing a less lethal tactic, and said the shooting makes it hard for Hispanics to trust the police. 

"So who do we go to?" she said. 

and doughnuts with police occasionally. 

Nasheera Brown, 15, of Allentown, said she didn't expect something like this to happen here. She shares coffee

"It makes me really want to cry," she said. "It was really wrong what they did. They shot him and it broke my trust

because he was doing nothing wrong. He was innocent. For that to happen somewhere public, where I go, it's really

heartbreaking and sad." 

Alex Soto of South Whitehall, said she's concerned about her two Latino sons when they are out in public.  

"They are still at risk despite my biggest efforts at home, just based on their appearance," she said. 

Carol Gonzalez of Allentown said she is sick and tired of seeing police kill people of color "for no reason." 

"The climate has been conducive to this type of thing for a while now, and it's not getting any better," she said.

"Until police are called to account for their actions, it's not going to change." 

Such shootings, which have prompted sometimes violent protests across the country in recent years, happen

because of the "warrior mentality that cops have today," Arty Ravitz, 79, of Easton said. "It's 'shoot first and ask

questions later' and it's the worst kind of policing America can have right now." 

The Lehigh County coroner's office said Santos died of multiple gunshot wounds and his death was ruled a

homicide - meaning he was killed by another person, not that the act was determined to be criminal. 

South Whitehall police have not commented on the shooting, which is being investigated by state police. Mark

Pinsley, a South Whitehall commissioner who is running for state Senate, said he planned to ask Lehigh County

District Attorney Jim Martin to refer the case to the state attorney general's office. 

Angel Valentin said it makes sense for a prosecutor with no connection to the county to oversee the investigation. 

Authorities have not released the name of the officer involved, who is on paid leave. 

Five miles from the vigil, at the South Whitehall Township commissioners meeting, police Chief Glen A. Dorney

offered his condolences to the Santos family and to his officer, saying, "This has touched more than two people." 

Many of those touched remained on Hamilton Boulevard until the sun set and the weather cooled. They slowly

dispersed, giving Santos' family time to grieve at the scene of his death. 

Credit: By Carol Thompson; Sarah M. Wojcik; Michelle Merlin - Of The Morning Call -

cthompson@mcall.com;Twitter @thompsoncarolk;610-778-2259;Madeleine Cook contributed to this story. 

Caption: Joseph Santos' ex-wife Ruth (left) offers comfort to another ex-wife, Arlene, Wednesday during a

protest/vigil along Hamilton Boulevard near the spot where Joseph Santos was shot by a South Whitehall police

Family and friends of Joseph Santos march Wednesday with area residents along Hamilton Boulevard to the spot

Santos was shot and killed Saturday by an officer. Demonstrators decried violence by police.  

Protesters gather for a vigil in South Whitehall Township, where mourners questioned whether Joseph Santos' race

cthompson@mcall.com 

Twitter @thompsoncarolk 

610-778-2259 

Madeleine Cook contributed to this story. 

officer Saturday.  

Santos 

factored into his death on Saturday. 

RICK KINTZEL/THE MORNING CALL  

RICK KINTZEL/THE MORNING CALL  

CAROL THOMPSON/THE MORNING CALL 
 
 


 
The American Civil Liberties Union of Rhode Island issued the following statement by Executive Director Steven

Brown in response to the grand jury finding that police officers and state troopers acted lawfully in the shooting of

Joseph Santos: 

"While the grand jury's decision is not surprising, it would be wrong to consider this the end of the matter. Even if

the fatal shooting of Mr. Santos was legally justified, many questions and concerns remain. 

"Providence police and State troopers put the public at great risk by engaging in an unnecessarily dangerous high-

speed chase, and then opening fire on a busy highway after Santos' vehicle was largely immobilized. 

"As our preliminary analysis of this shooting highlighted over two months ago, this tragic incident calls for a

serious examination by these agencies of their practices and protocols. We are hopeful that they will soon apprise

the public of actions they have taken to prevent similar incidents in the future." 

MSTRUCK-6151730 MSTRUCK 
 
 


 
July 31--"I'm scared." 

That was the sentiment of Phoebe Harris, an Allentown School Board member and mother of a teenage son. 

Harris was speaking at a community meeting Monday night in Center City Allentown, where about 30 people

gathered to discuss Saturday night's fatal shooting of a 44-year-old New Jersey man by a South Whitehall police

officer on Hamilton Boulevard. 

The meeting was organized by Jessica Ortiz, an Allentown resident 

PHOTO GALLERY: A South Whitehall Township police officer, dispatched to a report of a person interfering with

traffic, shot and killed a man on Hamilton Boulevard late Saturday afternoon, July 28, 2018, according to Lehigh

County District Attorney Jim Martin. 

"No crime is worthy of being shot five times in front of Ice Cream World and Dorney Park," Ortiz said. 

Besides Harris, elected officials at the meeting included Allentown School Directors Cheryl Johnson-Watts,

Allentown Councilwoman Cynthia Mota and South Whitehall Commissioner Mark Pinsley. 

At the meeting, many parents of children who are black, Hispanic or have mental health issues said they're

concerned for their children going out in the community when they hear of shootings involving police officers. 

At one point during the meeting, a 24-year-old woman broke down and said she is angry that minorities are being

killed. Ortiz comforted her while Phoebe Harris handed her tissues. 

Ortiz said she would like to see more officers homegrown and more speaking Spanish since there is a large

Many at the meeting said they would like to see police officers receive more de-escalation and mental health

Hispanic population. 

training. 

Lehigh County 911 dispatches on the shooting of Joseph Santos of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., reveal the first officer

on the scene called for backup for a possible "mental issue." 

No law enforcement officers attended the meeting. 

Mota said that while police officers aren't perfect, she believes they try their best. Allentown business owner John

Rosario also said he doesn't believe Allentown has a police brutality problem. 

State police and the Lehigh County Homicide Task Force police are investigating the shooting that happened

shortly before 6 p.m. on Hamilton Boulevard outside Dorney Park. 

An autopsy will be conducted Tuesday to determine the official cause and manner of Santos' death 

According to authorities, an officer was dispatched at 5:44 p.m. Saturday. On the 911 tape, a caller reported

"suspicious activity" in the area of Hamilton Boulevard and Lincoln Avenue. 

"Caller reported a male jumping on cars in front of Dorney Park. Hispanic male with blue shirt and shorts. Male is

bleeding from his arm," a dispatcher says. 

Broadcastify. 

County dispatchers then begin receiving 911 calls about "shots fired," according to the recording provided by

At a news conference Saturday, District Attorney Jim Martin said the Lehigh County 911 Center received multiple

calls about a man "interfering with traffic," Martin said. The man also damaged vehicles, including ripping a

window off a vehicle, he said. 

At about 5:50 p.m., a witness said the man was hanging off a police vehicle as it drove east. When the officer

pulled over, the man began banging on the windshield and the vehicle's side, the witness said. 

Video shot from a camera phone in the Comfort Suites parking lot shows the man walk away from the police

vehicle, turn around and walk back toward the officer. The officer repeatedly orders the man to "get on the ground." 

The man continues to walk toward the officer. He briefly raises one open hand and lowers it. The officer fires five

shots, and the man crumples forward. 

The man does not appear to be armed with a weapon on the video. 

Laurie Mason Schroeder contributed to this report. 

Hispanics; Mental health; Police; Criminal investigations; Traffic congestion

CREDIT: By Jacqueline Palochko 
 
 


 
Besides showing video from South Whitehall police officerJonathan Roselle’s body camera that captured the July

28 killing of Joseph Santos, Lehigh County prosecutors on Thursday presented snippets of two other videos, one

from Roselle’s vehicle and the other from another officer who desperately tried to save the fallen man. 

Projected on wall in the packed Lehigh County courtroom, Roselle’s dash-cam video shows Roselle driving off the

median after a woman, in hysterics, told him about a man, later identified as Santos, trying to break into her car. 

The dash camera captures Roselle making a U-Turn and then driving north on Hamilton Boulevard, where he pulls

up behind a red Jeep in front of the Comfort Suites hotel. Santos can be seen next to the Jeep, which drives off

shortly after Roselle stops his patrol vehicle. 

A shoeless Santos starts walking toward Roselle’s vehicle and he disappears from the dash cam's view when he

approaches the driver’s side window. Roselle could be heard repeatedly ordering him to “Go that way! Get in front

of the vehicle!” 

Santos re-appears when he jumps onto the hood of Roselle’s vehicle. 

camera from its mounting, leaving the camera dangling from a wire. 

That video ended before the shooting. 

Roselle continues giving him orders as Santos pounds the windshield with an open hand, eventually knocking the

Chief Deputy District Attorney Jeff Dimmig then presented body-camera video of township officer Kevin Smith, the

first officer to arrive after the shooting. 

kept coming, he wouldn’t stop.” 

Smith's camera footage begins as he runs toward Roselle. Without being asked what happened, Roselle says, “He

Santos is face down in a pool of blood next to the rear driver’s side tire of the patrol sport-utility vehicle. 

As Roselle again tells Smith that Santos “kept coming at him,” Smith tells Roselle that they’re going to perform

cardiopulmonary resuscitation in an attempt to revive Santos. Roselle blurts out an expletive. 

Smith tells Roselle to get his gloves on, and Roselle answers he only has one. 

Smith again says they have to perform CPR and tells Roselle to get some gloves. 

“He’s done,” Roselle can be heard saying. Smith says something inaudible. “I know, I’m just saying,” Roselle

The video ends as Smith is repeatedly performing chest compression on Santos. Showing only the bloody face of

the victim, prosecutors end Smith’s body cam video after a few seconds. 

responds. 

mgamiz@mcall.com 

Twitter @mannypantalones 

610-820-6595 

Credit: Manuel Gamiz Jr. 
 
 


 
Someone sent me the video as my wife and I were driving home from York Sunday night. 

I watched on my phone and was horrified, as so many other people were. Here was a man being shot down by a

police officer, on video and in front of busy traffic along Hamilton Boulevard, and there was no indication he had a

weapon. 

One moment he was approaching the police car. Then …BLAM BLAM BLAM BLAM BLAM! He was down. 

Videos of the shooting show that a police officer fired five shots when Joseph Santos, 44, of Hasbrouck Heights,

N.J., failed to follow his repeated commands to “get on the ground!” and kept approaching. 

The South Whitehall officer was dispatched at about 5:45 p.m. after a caller reported “suspicious activity” in the

area of Hamilton Boulevard and Lincoln Avenue. 

“Caller reported a male jumping on cars in front of Dorney Park. Hispanic male with blue shirt and shorts. Male is

bleeding from his arm,” a dispatcher said. The man had damaged some vehicles, according to later reports. Once

the officer got there and saw what was happening, he called for backup, citing a possible “mental issue.” 

The first reaction, for me and many others, was: For this, a man should be shot dead? 

About 30 people gathered in Allentown Monday night to discuss their fears. Some parents of children who are

black, Hispanic or have mental health issues said they’re concerned for their children going out in the community

because of this and other shootings involving police officers. 

Several groups were scheduled to unite for a protest Wednesday evening at the site of the shooting. 

Before I use this as a jumping-off point for thoughts about race, police shootings and more, I want to preach

caution regarding this shooting. 

whether the shooting was justified. 

This has been ruled a homicide, and state police and the Lehigh County district attorney’s office are investigating

Until that investigation is completed, including toxicology results and other information on what may have been

happening with this victim, we need to reserve judgment. 

Those of us who haven’t worn a police uniform, who haven’t faced the unpredictability of people who are mentally

ill, impaired by substance abuse or deeply angry for other reasons, can’t begin to imagine what it’s like to have that

person coming toward you or appearing to threaten the safety of innocent bystanders. 

Are they armed? Are they powerful enough to cause real harm, even without a weapon? 

Some of these life and death decisions have to be made in an instant. Some of them, in retrospect, are wrong. 

Certainly, on the surface, this shooting looks questionable. But it’s much too early to pronounce judgment. 

That said, I can’t help thinking that the prevalence of cellphones, annoying and even dangerous as they can be in

all kinds of ways, is a blessing. 

Their videos make it so hard to get away with anything, particularly in any kind of public setting. 

Harassing black people at a public or private swimming pool? Berating Spanish-speaking people in a restaurant?

Calling police on black people —even children —for the most innocent, mundane activities? 

You’re busted. Before you know it, thanks to that viral video that just went out over Twitter or Facebook, you’re in a

place where everybody knows your name and your face —and they’re all telling you what a creep you are. You may

even lose your job. 

If this hasn’t had a chilling effect yet, it will. Bigots, keep your ugly thoughts to yourselves or risk the viral

consequences. 

Just as positive has been the way these videos help at least some white people understand what people of color

have understood all along —that throughout their lives, they’re treated with suspicion and fear, if not hostility, just

because of the color of their skin. 

Whatever some politicians and judges are telling you about where we are in the quest for racial equality, we’re not

there yet. We’ve made progress, certainly. But there’s still a long way to go, and not just in the Deep South. 

The most dramatic examples, of course, have been cellphone videos of police shootings in which the victims were

people of color. 

The same suspicion, fear and hostility we’re still finding in the general population is a factor in some of these

shootings, where people lose their lives for offenses that in some cases warrant nothing more than a citation. 

I’ll never forget the emotional wallop of “Daily Show” host Trevor Noah’s reaction to a “not guilty” verdict delivered

last year for a Minnesota policeman who fatally shot a black man during a traffic stop for a broken tail light. 

Then newly released dash cam footage showed a police stop in which the driver, in the car with his family, told the

officer he had a gun and appeared to be following his instructions. 

Suddenly, the officer panicked, firing seven times at the man as his girlfriend and her little daughter watched. 

Horrified as Noah had been by the verdict, he said, “When I watched this video, it broke me.” 

He said, ““Forget race. Are we all watching the same video? The video where a law-abiding man followed the

officer’s instructions to the letter of the law and was killed regardless? People watched that video and then voted

to acquit?” 

they are black.” 

He said many black people had assumed that if these cases just could get before juries instead of being swept

under the rug by the authorities, justice could be done. 

“It’s one thing to have the system against you …”he said. “But when a jury of your peers, your community, sees this

evidence and decides that even this is self-defense, that is truly depressing. 

“Because what they’re basically saying is, in America it is officially reasonable to be afraid of a person just because

I am not saying that any of this came into play in what happened to Joseph Santos. And I’m certainly not trying to

impugn the attitudes and behavior of local police, who have no history of such overreactions and, in my

experience, have overwhelmingly shown themselves to be conscientious professionals. 

But in the face of this national onslaught of ugly cellphone and dash cam videos, surely you can understand why

some people of color aren’t ready to declare this a society that is color blind. 

Or, for them, even safe. 

Bill White’s commentary appears Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays. 

bill.white@mcall.com, 610-820-6105 

Credit: Bill White 
 
 


 
During an emotional hearing Thursday that featured dramatic body-camera footage that captured the July 28

shooting of Joseph Santos by rookie South Whitehall Township officer Jonathan Roselle, Roselle’s attorney tried

to argue the shooting was justified, setting off a heated exchange with prosecutors, including Lehigh County

District Attorney Jim Martin. 

Gavin Holihan, Roselle’s attorney, had been questioning state police Trooper Thomas Rummerfield, who had edited

the videos to show only what he felt were the the relevant scenes necessary for the hearing. 

At first, Holihan asked the trooper’s opinions of what was being projected onto a wall of the courtroom, leading to

an objection from Chief Deputy District Attorney Jeff Dimmig. 

After an objection, Holihan agreed not to ask for the trooper’s opinions. Holihan continued questioning

Rummerfield about other aspects of the video, including whether the hysterical woman was describing a

carjacking when she flagged down Roselle and said, “He tried to break my window. He tried to get in my car.” 

Rummerfield answered that it was difficult to interpret what she was saying. He added that the audio is being sent

out to be cleaned up. Dimmig objected and said the trooper will not be doing “play-by-play” of everything shown in

Holihan then asked the trooper about a gesture Santos could be seen making in the video. In the video, Santos

twice points two fingers toward his eyes and then to Roselle’s direction, as if to say, “I see you” or “I’m watching

Holihan described it as a threatening gesture, but Dimmig again argued the interpretation is something left to a

Holihan said he was only attempting to defend his client against the charge of voluntary manslaughter, which

prosecutors say were the result of Roselle being under an unreasonable mistaken belief that he was justified in the

the video. 

you.” 

jury to decide. 

shooting. 

Roselle reasonably believed Santos was a threat to him and the community, Holihan argued. 

Dimmig repeated that a jury would decide whether the shooting was justified, not a district judge. 

“We only have to show three things here,” he said. “That Mr. Santos was killed, that Jonathan Roselle killed him

and that his intent was to kill him.” 

As the two continued going back and forth, a frustrated Martin, who had been sitting at the prosecution table,

stood up and objected to Holihan’s interpretation of the rules as it pertains to evidence at preliminary hearings. 

“I’m the district attorney of Lehigh County, I brought these charges,” Martin said. “I’m not going to have this case

stifled because of his interpretations of the rules.” 

Holihan responded by saying that it was inappropriate for the district attorney to intervene, “there’s no tag team,

Things calmed, but instead of having Rummerfield respond to questions about the video, Holihan had Dimmig play

two against one here.” 

it a second time. 

mgamiz@mcall.com 

Twitter @mannypantalones 

610-820-6595 

Credit: Manuel Gamiz Jr. 
 
 


 
Lehigh County 911 dispatches about a man who allegedly interfered with traffic along Hamilton Boulevard before a

South Whitehall officer shot and killed him Saturday night reveal the first officer on the scene called for backup for

a possible "mental issue." 

not release other details. 

Authorities on Monday identified the dead man as 44-year-old Joseph Santos of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., but did

An autopsy will be conducted today to determine the official cause and manner of death. 

State police and the Lehigh County Homicide Task Force police are investigating the shooting that happened

shortly before 6 p.m. on Hamilton Boulevard outside Dorney Park. 

"I'm in front of the Comfort Suites with a possible, uh, mental issue here," the unidentified officer says on the 911

tape after he arrived at the scene. "Can I get another unit?" 

At a community meeting Monday night in Center City Allentown, many people said because of the shooting, they

would like to see police officers receive more de-escalation and mental health training. 

"No crime is worthy of being shot five times in front of Ice Cream World and Dorney Park," said Jessica Ortiz,

organizer of the meeting and Allentown resident. 

About 30 people attended the forum, which centered around the shooting and what can be done in its aftermath. 

Elected officials at the meeting included Allentown School Directors Cheryl Johnson-Watts and Phoebe Harris,

Allentown Councilwoman Cynthia Mota and South Whitehall Commissioner Mark Pinsley. 

Many parents of children who are black, Hispanic or have mental health issues, said they're concerned for their

children going out in the community when they hear of shootings involving police officers. 

"I'm scared," Harris, the mother of a teenage son, said. 

No law enforcement officers attended the meeting. Mota said that while police officers aren't perfect, she believes

they try their best. Allentown business owner John Rosario also said he doesn't believe Allentown has a police

brutality problem. 

No one in attendance shared information about Santos. 

According to authorities, an officer was dispatched at 5:44 p.m. Saturday. On the 911 tape, a caller reported

"suspicious activity" in the area of Hamilton Boulevard and Lincoln Avenue. 

"Caller reported a male jumping on cars in front of Dorney Park. Hispanic male with blue shirt and shorts. Male is

bleeding from his arm," a dispatcher says. 

Broadcastify. 

County dispatchers then begin receiving 911 calls about "shots fired," according to the recording provided by

At a news conference Saturday, District Attorney Jim Martin said the Lehigh County 911 Center received multiple

calls about a man "interfering with traffic," Martin said. The man also damaged vehicles, including ripping a

window off a vehicle, he said. 

At about 5:50 p.m., a witness said the man was hanging off a police vehicle as it drove east. When the officer

pulled over, the man began banging on the windshield and the vehicle's side, the witness said. 

Video shot from a camera phone in the Comfort Suites parking lot shows the man walk away from the police

vehicle, turn around and walk back toward the officer. The officer repeatedly orders the man to "get on the ground."

The man continues to walk toward the officer. He briefly raises one open hand and lowers it. The officer fires five

shots, and the man crumples forward. 

The man does not appear to be armed with a weapon on the video. 

A call of shots fired then went out across the radio dispatch. 

The unidentified officer remains on paid leave while state police investigate the shooting, Martin has said. 

The last time someone died as a result of a police shooting in Lehigh County was in March. Authorities say 26-

year-old Aaron Ibrahem was fleeing a Walmart in Lower Macungie Township when he pointed a homemade gun at

a trooper during a foot chase. Less than two months later, Martin ruled the shooting justified. 

The scene where Santos was shot was quiet Monday. The only noises came from passing cars and the occasional

delighted screams of roller coaster riders across the highway at Dorney Park. A knot of television trucks idled in a

parking lot overlooking the highway. 

Managers at the hotels along the busy thoroughfare declined to speak with a reporter. 

Someone had tied a small bundle of flowers wrapped in purple packaging to the wooden posts in front of the

Comfort Suites hotel, but left no note. By Monday evening, many of the lavender blooms in the bouquet drooped to

the ground, wilted. 

Reporters Pamela Lehman and Sarah Wojcik contributed to this story. 

EXCERPTS FROM 911 CALL BEFORE SOUTH WHITEHALL POLICE SHOOTING 

*"I'm in front of the Comfort Suites with a possible, uh, mental issue here," the unidentified officer says. "Can I get

another unit?" 

bleeding from his arm," a dispatcher says. 

*"Caller reported a male jumping on cars in front of Dorney Park. Hispanic male with blue shirt and shorts. Male is

*County dispatchers then begin receiving 911 calls about "shots fired," the recording shows. 

Credit: By Laurie Mason Schroeder; Jacqueline Palochko - Of The Morning Call - Reporters Pamela Lehman and

Sarah Wojcik contributed to this story. 

Caption: Chronological screen shots from a video obtained by The Morning Call show the seconds leading up to

the fatal shooting of a man by a South Whitehall Township police officer on Saturday. The panels show the

progressional stages of the incident. 

leave pending the conclusion of the investigation.  

Police investigate the scene of a fatal shooting by a South Whitehall Township police officer. The officer is on paid

A small bundle of flowers was tied Monday to wooden posts near the scene of a South Whitehall Township police

shooting. An unidentified officer shot and killed 44-year-old Joseph Santos alongside the road after authorities say

Santos was interfering with traffic. 

South Whitehall Commissioner Mark Pinsley (right) speaks at a community meeting Monday night in Center City

Allentown, centered around the South Whitehall shooting. The meeting was attended by about 30 people. 

SPECIAL TO THE MORNING CALL 

JANE THERESE/SPECIAL TO THE MORNING CALL  

THE MORNING CALL 

Madeleine Cook/THE MORNING CALL 
 
 


 
In his final moments, Joseph Santos asked for help even as he frightened a motorist by jumping on her moving car

on Hamilton Boulevard. That offense brought him face to face with a rookie South Whitehall Township police

officer, whose order to “get on the ground” he ignored. 

Walking toward Officer Jonathan Roselle, Santos, who clearly had no weapon, uttered his last words. “Don’t do it,”

he pleaded, as Roselle unloaded five shots. 

Seven months after joining the police department, Roselle, a 33-year-old Army veteran of Afghanistan, was charged

Tuesday with voluntary manslaughter and surrendered to authorities. 

At a news conference Tuesday, Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin called Santos’ July 28 death unjustified,

based on the findings of a state police investigation. 

“This was an act of a relatively inexperienced officer who held a subjective fear for his own safety, but he made a

decision which objectively was unreasonable in light of the facts,” Martin said. 

Roselle, who was hired in December and had been on patrol by himself for only five months, questioned his own

actions immediately, according to court documents. 

He told an officer and then a supervisor who arrived on the scene that he thought he “f---ed up,” the documents

note. 

him. 

Martin confirmed that Santos, 44, of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., was not armed. 

He said police interviewed 11 witnesses, finding that Santos was jumping and pounding on cars and asking some

motorists for help. Not everything Santos was saying was captured on the officer’s bodycam or car dashcam,

Martin said, but he was heard pleading to Roselle, “Don’t do it,” before being shot. 

Weeping as they stood outside the courthouse listening to Martin’s press conference, Santos’ family vowed to see

that Roselle is convicted and stripped of his badge. The NAACP also called upon South Whitehall Township to fire

Calling Roselle “trigger happy,” Arlene Figueroa, the mother of one of Santos’ children, asked why he was allowed

to work without a partner, given that he was too inexperienced to handle stressful situations. 

“I don’t wish him harm,” Figueroa said, as she clutched a sign with pictures of Santos and their 8-year-old daughter.

“I pray that he’s able to close his eyes and not picture what I see at night.” 

Roselle, who lives in Parryville, joined South Whitehall after graduating from the Allentown Police Academy and

was set to spend the first 14 weeks on the job in field training. Before that he was in the Army and public records

show he attended Binghamton University-SUNY. Martin said Roselle is in the National Guard, where he holds the

rank of major. 

He was charged by District Judge Michael Faulkner with one count of voluntary manslaughter —a felony

punishable by up to 20 years in prison —and released on $75,000 unsecured bail. 

In a prepared statement, Roselle’s attorney Gavin Holihan, said, “Officer Roselle believes now, as he did on July 28,

that his actions were justified and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances evident at the time. He

respects the system of justice he has sworn to uphold and he eagerly awaits the opportunity to be heard at trial.

He believes that when all of the evidence is presented publicly, any fair citizen will reach the same conclusion he

reached: that the deadly force used on July 28 was justified and appropriate.” 

South Whitehall Police Chief Glen Dorney said Roselle is on paid leave and that his department is conducting an

He and Martin offered their condolences to Santos’ family. And Dorney also offered condolences to Roselle, saying

He called his officer “a man of honor and integrity and a good person to the core,” adding, “this incident does not

internal investigation of the shooting. 

the shooting has “affected him dearly.” 

change that.” 

‘Get on the ground’ 

Santos spent most of July 28 with relatives at Dorney Park, celebrating the birthdays of his girlfriend’s two teenage

sons. His girlfriend told The Morning Call she was unaware he had left the park and that she had spent a frantic

night trying to find him before finding out about his death the next day. 

Santos, who had a history with drugs but had gained sobriety in recent years and helped others get off drugs, was

on probation for a drug possession charge in New Jersey at the time of his death, court records show. His sister,

Iris Guzman of Reading, said days after his death that relatives were trying to determine how he ended up in traffic

on Hamilton Boulevard. She said he did not have mental health issues. 

At about 5:45 p.m. on July 28, several people called 911 about a man interfering with traffic. Videos circulating on

social media show a shoeless man hanging onto a moving car. Martin said some vehicles were damaged,

including one in which a window was ripped out. 

According to court documents, Roselle was parked on the median on Hamilton Boulevard, monitoring traffic, when

a hysterical woman pulled up beside him and reported that a man had tried to enter her car. He made a U-turn and

saw a man who was bleeding and walking toward him. Roselle radioed for backup, telling dispatchers he may be

dealing with a person with a mental issue. Before anyone else arrived, Santos banged on the driver side window,

then climbed on the SUV’s hood and pounded in “slow lethargic motions” on the windshield, dislodging the SUV’s

dashcam. The police cruiser continued moving slowly for several feet before stopping. Santos got off the hood and

banged on the passenger window a few times before appearing exhausted as he leaned on the vehicle. 

Roselle drew his 9 mm handgun while he was still sitting in the driver’s seat and pointed it at Santos after the first

bang on his car window, the documents state. When Santos stopped banging, Roselle got out of the car and

ordered him to back away from the vehicle, keeping the gun pointed at him. 

In videos posted on social media, Santos is seen walking away from the stopped police cruiser, then reversing

course as the officer shouts repeatedly for him to “get on the ground.” As he approaches Roselle, he slightly raises

then lowers a hand. 

Martin pointed out that Santos was walking, not running or rushing toward the officer. That nothing was in his

hands, his fists were not clenched and his posture was not threatening, even as he faced Roselle’s gun. "Don't do

it," Martin said Santos could be heard saying. 

Five shots rang out and Santos collapsed to the ground. Lehigh County Coroner Scott Grim later said Santos died

of multiple gunshots, though he wouldn’t say how many hit him. 

Officer Kevin Smith was the first to arrive and helped Roselle perform CPR on Santos. 

As they did, Roselle told Smith he thought he “f---ed up,” court documents say. He told Smith he “didn’t know what

to do” because Santos kept coming at him, the records say. When Sgt. Kevin Edelheiser arrived, Roselle again said

that he thought he had messed up, adding that he should have just stayed in his vehicle but he thought Santos

might go into traffic. 

No malice 

Before Martin’s decision was announced, the NAACP had joined South Whitehall Township Commissioner Mark

Pinsley and others in asking the district attorney to turn the case over to the state Attorney General’s Office.

or appropriate.” 

American officers. 

or other racial minority. 

Questioning Martin’s objectivity, the NAACP pointed to a comment he made at a news conference the night of the

shooting in which he said the officer “encountered the gentleman and unfortunately had to use his weapon and

shot him.” 

Martin acknowledged Tuesday that he poorly chose his words that night. He added that he does not believe race

played a role in the shooting and that Roselle did not act out of malice but out of the “unreasonable mistaken

belief that he was justified in doing so.” 

Martin said the voluntary manslaughter charge —which the state code defines as a killing by someone acting

under a sudden and intense passion —reflects that Roselle was not justified in using deadly force, given that

Santos was not armed or committing a felony and that deadly force was not necessary to prevent death or secure

an arrest. He opted to use a gun instead of less lethal options at his disposal, notably a baton, pepper spray and

Taser —all of which were in working order, Martin said. 

He said his office will not release bodycam or dashcam videos because they are part of the evidence in the case. 

The NAACP called Roselle a “menace,” adding that “members of the public are not safe while this individual

continues to carry a badge and a gun.” 

The organization said it conducted its own investigation, led by Tony Phillips, a retired Allentown police officer and

vice president of the local branch, and concluded that the officer “Illegally and wrongfully shot five bullets at

Joseph Santos in a situation where the officer’s life was not in jeopardy and where lethal force was not called for

The organization also called on South Whitehall to add more minority officers to its roster and to better train its

police force in racial bias and when to use lethal force. According to the NAACP, the township has no African-

There appear to be no African-American officers among the 34 police officers pictured in a group photo on the

department’s website. Asked Tuesday, Dorney would not say if any member of his force is African-American, Latino

At a vigil for Santos last week, his brother, Luis Santos, made reference to the numerous incidents of unarmed men

of color being shot by police in recent years, and asked the crowd if the fact that his brother was Latino may have

factored into his death. “If he was white, would they have gone a different route?” 

“Yes,” shouted the 100 or so in the crowd. 

Make the Road PA, one of the vigil’s organizers, issued a statement Tuesday supporting Martin’s decision and

noting that it’s just the first step. 

“While the indictment is important we know that many police are indicted but not found guilty and as a community

we demand that all necessary resources be provided to ensure a conviction,” Director Adanjesús Marín said in the

“We also recognize the indictment of this officer does not address the overarching problem of police who resort to

deadly force as their first option,” he added. “Together with the community we will present demands for changes in

police departments throughout the valley to ensure that this never happens again.” 

Santos’ killing is different from the last two fatal officer-involved shootings in Lehigh County in that he did not

appear to be armed. In the previous cases, Martin found the shootings justified, making his rulings after about

The last Lehigh Valley police officer charged with killing someone was Easton officer Scott C. Cameron, who shot

and killed John Rapp on Christmas Eve in 1998. 

Cameron found Rapp asleep at the wheel of his parked vehicle in Palmer Township and knocked on the window.

The startled driver sped off, knocking the officer over. Cameron shot at the fleeing Rapp, hitting him in the back of

State police determined the three-year police veteran was not justified to use deadly force. Cameron eventually

pleaded guilty to involuntary manslaughter and served 18 months in prison. About two dozen officers attended his

guilty plea, wearing blue ribbons as a show of support. 

statement. 

seven weeks. 

the head. 

mgamiz@mcall.com 

Twitter @mannypantalones 

610-820-6595 

Pamela Lehman, Michelle Merlin and Dan Sheehan contributed to this story.  

Credit: Manuel Gamiz Jr., Sarah M. Wojcik, Laurie Mason Schroeder, Carol Thompson 
 
 


 
On Sunday afternoon, more than 100 people assembled on Hamilton Boulevard near the spot on Hamilton

Boulevard where South Whitehall Township police officer Jonathan Roselle fatally shot a man two weeks ago. 

It was a peaceful rally. People carried signs such as "Let police do their job" and waved Thin Blue Line American

flags. Cars driving by honked in support. 

There were no official speakers. But as they mingled, some wondered why Roselle was charged with voluntary

manslaughter in the death of Joseph Santos of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J. 

"You can't crucify a police officer when he's trying to do his job," said Mike Cepress of Catasauqua. 

It was a different message nearly four miles away at Resurrected Life Community Church on North Ninth Street in

Allentown. 

There, an interfaith service for Santos, 44, grew into a united call for justice and reform as several Lehigh Valley

religious leaders took to the pulpit, insisting the country's humanity is at stake. 

"What is it about black and brown bodies that elicits so much violence?" asked Larry Pickens, ecumenical director

of the Lehigh County Conference of Churches. 

The two events, both starting at 2 p.m, took place days after Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin announced

Roselle had been charged with voluntary manslaughter, a felony punishable by up to 20 years in prison. Roselle,

33, has been on $75,000 unsecured bail. 

Martin said Roselle, who was hired by South Whitehall police in December, was not justified in using deadly force,

given that Santos was not armed or committing a felony and that deadly force was not necessary to prevent death

or secure an arrest. 

"This was an act of a relatively inexperienced officer who held a subjective fear for his own safety, but he made a

decision which objectively was unreasonable in light of the facts," Martin said Tuesday. 

According to authorities, Santos, who had been with his family at Dorney Park &Wildwater Kingdom, had been

jumping on moving vehicles along the 3700 block of Hamilton Boulevard when Roselle arrived. Martin said some

vehicles were damaged, including one in which a window was ripped out. 

The rally for Roselle was organized through a suggestion posted on Facebook by New Tripoli resident Corey

Fatzinger. 

The idea of a pro-police rally being held at the spot where Santos died provoked immediate outrage from the

NAACP Allentown Branch - which demanded the event be canceled. 

A vigil for Santos was held in the same area on Aug. 1, drawing about 100 participants. A makeshift memorial has

been set up in his name. 

Sunday's rally for Roselle went off without incident except for a yelling match that broke out when a woman

showed up and told supporters they were supporting a murderer. A man told her she was anti-American. Upper

Macungie police arrived to watch over the exchange. 

Among those participating at the Roselle rally were people who wanted to show their support for police, those who

felt Roselle was wrongly charged and others who believe Santos was at least partly responsible for what

happened. 

Fatzinger said Roselle was "wrongly accused." 

"He did his job and now he's been hung out to dry, so he needs all the support he can get," Fatzinger said. 

Cepress, who attended the rally with his rottweiler Bonzo, said he has a number of friends in law enforcement and

they've discussed a video shot by a witness that captured the shooting. 

None of his law enforcement friends questioned officer Roselle's use of force, he said. At worst, they said, he may

have fired a few too many rounds, he said. 

Regardless, Cepress said no one knows exactly what Roselle was faced with when he confronted Santos. 

"The police officer had direct contact with him," he said. "He looked him in the eyes. He heard what he was saying.

He was there giving the individual commands and was completely ignored." 

Peggy Karpeuk of Upper Macungie, who wore a Thin Blue Line T-shirt and carried a large Thin Blue Line American

flag, said she felt bad for the situation Roselle was put in for "the guy's wrongful action." 

"In a split second he had to make such a decision on a busy road like this," she said, pointing to Hamilton

Boulevard. 

Richard Kehm, 77, of Lower Macungie Township was dressed in a red, white and blue cowboy hat and shirt and

holding #PSPStrong sign in support of state police Cpl. Seth Kelly, who was wounded in a gun battle in November

on Route 33 in Plainfield Township. 

Dashcam footage of the Route 33 shooting was released last week, and Kehm said it shows how quickly things

can escalate when officers are dealing with a person refusing commands and resisting arrest. 

"Thank God he was all right," Kehm said. "These guys are really up against it at that moment." 

Kehm and his wife Phyllis say they have four relatives in law enforcement, including one in South Whitehall, which

is another reason they wanted to offer their support for Roselle, a rookie officer. 

"These officers, they don't know if they are going to be coming home to their families or not," she said. 

Pastor Greg Edwards opened the service by lifting up Santos' loved ones and then reading aloud the names of

The long list should disturb anyone, regardless of race, religion or ethnicity, according to Celicia Baxter, senior

About 100 people attended the interfaith service. 

people killed by police officers across the nation. 

pastor of New Creation UCC in Palmer Township. 

A mother of two boys with another baby on the way, Baxter described said the powerful love of a parent should

motivate everyone to work toward a world where every person is treated with dignity and respect. 

"We want a home where police officers only use deadly force as the absolute last resort, in the most extreme of

cases - not as the first resort," she said. "I say this as a white mother of white boys because when one part of the

body suffers, we all suffer. Our criminal justice system has no justice until there is justice for all. We are not free,

until we are all free." 

Rev. Benjamin T. Hailey, a senior pastor of Union Baptist Church, spoke softly to those gathered, encouraging them

to think hard about what they feel when they take stock of him: a tall, black man. 

"What do you see, when you see me? Do you see a pastor? A man of integrity? Or do you see another one of those

black boys and so you need to clutch your purse?" Hailey asked. 

Arlene Figueroa, an ex-wife of Joseph Santos and the mother of his daughter, said she's been praying for the South

Whitehall police officer charged with shooting him. 

"You were the last person to see Joey alive," she said, trembling before Sunday's service. "I don't have hatred in my

heart because God ... God gives me strength. And I just pray for you." 

During the ceremony, a tearful Figueroa described how she and Santos were still incredibly close after sharing an

18-year relationship and an 8-year-old daughter. 

Santos, she said, adored the girl. He would paint her nails and hold tea parties with her and her dolls. Their

daughter, Figueroa said, has autism and is still reeling from the death of her grandfather. Figueroa said she's yet to

reveal to the girl that Santos was killed. But she knows the time is coming. 

Meanwhile, Figueroa said, the healing has been hard. 

"I have to tell my legs 'Left and right' every day. They say you heal day by day. But I haven't seen no change yet." 

Credit: Sarah M. Wojcik; Michelle Merlin ; Manuel Gamiz Jr. - Of The Morning Call 

Caption: An individual who said 'no comment' when asked for his name, holds a sign supporting South Whitehall

Township Police officer Jonathan Roselle during a rally Sunday along Hamilton Boulevard close to where Roselle

shot and killed Joseph Santos two weeks ago.  

Maegan Munoz (left) of Make the Road PA and Arlene Figueroa, ex-wife of Joseph Santos, listen Sunday to a

speech during an interfaith service at Resurrected Life Church in Allentown.  

Margaret Stansfield of Lehighton holds a bumper sticker high in the air during Sunday's rally. The rally was along

Hamilton Boulevard Joseph Santos was shot and killed by South Whitehall Township Police Officer Jonathan

Roselle two weeks ago.  

Severin Johnson, 4, of Bethlehem gets a high-five from Michael Cardell, an officer with the Upper Macungie

Township Police Department, during Sunday's rally on Hamilton Boulevard.  

Cantor Kevin Wartell of Temple Beth El of South Whitehall Township and Arlene Figueroa, ex-wife of Joseph

Santos, light a candle in memory of Santos during an interfaith service at Resurrected Life Church in Allentown on

Sunday. 

RICK KINTZEL/THE MORNING CALL  

Harry Fisher/The Morning Call  

RICK KINTZEL/THE MORNING CALL  

RICK KINTZEL/THE MORNING CALL  

Harry Fisher/The Morning Call 
 
 


 
As prosecutors and defense lawyers prepare for the case against the South Whitehall Township police officer who

fatally shot an unarmed man 15 days ago, one aspect of the officer’s life —his military career —may take a central

role in explaining the split-second calculus he used in deciding to open fire. 

No one but the officer, Jonathan Roselle, can say what was going through his mind at the time he shot Joseph

Santos, 44, of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., July 28. 

But experts who evaluate police and military personnel say it’s possible his police officer training to protect and

defend life was overtaken in the heat of the moment by the more intensive combat training he received as a

soldier. 

“Military training is an incredibly emotive, gut-level experience,” said Peter Kraska, an Eastern Kentucky University

professor who has written on police and military training. “It’s meant to deprogram someone’s natural hesitancy to

take a life and get them in a mindset —cognitively and emotionally —where they can do that without a second

thought. And going through a police academy is not going to rout that out.” 

The speculation by Kraska and others was not meant to criticize soldiers, police or their training. Indeed, military

training, with its leadership skills and discipline, is desirable in police work, Kraska said. 

“I know from my own experience that ex-soldiers make excellent police officers,” he said. 

But it also is true that police have become “more military-like,” Kraska said, citing the “extreme levels of fear” police

SWAT teams can incite in the public. 

Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin last week charged Roselle, 33, with voluntary manslaughter in the

shooting death of Santos on Hamilton Boulevard, across from Dorney Park. Santos was seen jumping onto moving

cars along Hamilton Boulevard, and when Roselle responded and ordered him to get on the ground, Santos refused

and continued walking toward the officer. Roselle fired five times, killing Santos. 

Roselle’s lawyer, Gavin Holihan, said he will explore the role his client’s military background may have played in the

shooting. Roselle served in Afghanistan in the infantry, he said. 

He declined to discuss Roselle’s training as a soldier or police officer, but said Roselle’s decision to shoot was a

“judgment call” based on a fear of imminent death or serious bodily injury. Holihan said Roselle believes the fatal

shooting was legally justified. 

Philip Stinson, a Bowling Green State University criminologist who has been tracking police shootings since 2005,

said he too wonders which training Roselle relied on when he drew his gun on Santos. Stinson said he has thought

for years about whether similarly trained officers can “undo those experiences and training that they had with the

military.” 

Videos taken by bystanders of Santos’ walking away from Roselle’s police cruiser, turning around and walking

back while ignoring commands to stop, led Stinson to recall other scenes of police officers’ seeming to fire quickly. 

“I’m looking at patterns over time,” Stinson said. “We see it time and again in some of these videos. It’s hard to

explain their decision-making processes.” 

However, putting the action in a different setting makes Roselle’s decision-making understandable, he said. 

“If it were a military situation, the shooting makes sense,” Stinson said 

A U.S. Department of Defense spokesman said the department does not discuss the rules of engagement for

soldiers in Afghanistan, which would define when a soldier’s use of force would be warranted. 

Allentown police declined to be interviewed about training at the police academy, which Roselle completed in

December, according to Martin. 

Pennsylvania officials said the most recent police academy curriculum requires 23 weeks of training, of which 26

hours are devoted to behavior management and crisis intervention, which includes recognizing people with special

needs and responding to people with mental illness. Lehigh County 911 dispatches just before the shooting

recorded Roselle discussing a man, Santos, with possible “mental issues.” 

South Whitehall police Chief Glen A. Dorney also declined to comment, citing the investigation and the potential for

civil litigation. 

Researchers have spent little time assessing the impact of military service on police forces, according to a 2016

study by The Marshall Project, a journalism nonprofit focusing on criminal justice. That’s even though 1 in every 5

police officers is a veteran, it said. 

A study by the Pew Research Center last year of nearly 8,000 police officers found that white, male officers

working in large cities —and having military experience —were the characteristics defining those most likely to

have fired their service weapon on the job. Only 27 percent of officers ever fire their gun while on the job, it said. 

A 2013 study in the International Journal of Emergency Mental Health found that police officers without a military

background experienced significantly more physically and psychologically threatening job-related events than

veterans. The findings, it said, “suggest that those officers with prior military experience may be better prepared for

However, it also found that police without military service used effective stress-reducing practices more often than

the stress of police work.” 

police officers with a military background. 

responses. 

Psychologists who work with police and military personnel said the situation Roselle faced could provoke different

Eugene O’Donnell, a former officer with the New York Police Department who teaches at John Jay College of

Criminal Justice, said police know a situation can deteriorate immediately, even with an unarmed man. He noted

two cases in the last month —in Weymouth, Mass., and Fort Myers, Fla. —when an unarmed man gained control of

a police gun and fatally shot an officer. 

Besides military experience, O’Donnell said, Roselle’s lack of police experience and the short time he spent working

by himself are issues to consider. In announcing the charges, Martin also mentioned that Roselle was “relatively

inexperienced.” 

making, he said. 

“At the end of the day, you are talking about a human …who has at least two sets of significant life experiences,”

O’Donnell said, referring to Roselle’s military and police work. “Two very different enterprises.” 

Matt Guller of the Institute for Forensic Psychology in Oakland, N.J., said a military background is “a double-edged

sword” for police officers. Their training is superior, but it may not be appropriate at times for police decision-

Some military veterans also return home with post-traumatic stress disorder, which can be triggered by police

work, Guller said. There has been no suggestion that Roselle experienced PTSD. 

Hiring practices often favor veterans, whose service has long been valued by public and private employers. Civil

service rules in many jurisdictions give preference to veterans, and the Trump administration last year boosted

federal efforts to help veterans make the transition to law enforcement with the signing of the American Law

Enforcement Heroes Act. 

For Roselle’s court case, it’s a long way from the filing of charges to a conviction, Stinson said. Stinson keeps a

database of police shootings that shows officers have been convicted of unjustified shootings 32 times since

2005 —or less than three times a year on average —although police fatally shoot roughly 1,000 people a year. 

------------ 

Two Sunday events 

Supporters of South Whitehall police officer Jonathan Roselle will meet for a rally at 2 p.m. by the Comfort Inn

Suites on Hamilton Boulevard, near the shooting site. 

At the same hour, community groups will hold an interfaith memorial service for Joseph Santos at Resurrected Life

Church, 144 N. Ninth St., Allentown. 

------------ 

tdarragh@mcall.com 

Twitter @tmdarragh 

610-820-6691 

Credit: Tim Darragh 
 
 


 
A rookie police officer who, according to authorities, said he had "f----d up" and "didn't know what to do" when he

fatally shot an unarmed man in Pennsylvania has been charged with voluntary manslaughter, prosecutors said

Tuesday.  

South Whitehall Township Police Officer Jonathan Roselle, 33, whose US Army service included a tour in

Afghanistan, had been on the job about six months when he encountered 44-year-old Joseph Santos on the

afternoon of July 28, Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin said in a statement.  

Moments earlier, a motorist pulled up alongside the officer and said a man had tried to get into her car, according

to the statement. When Roselle pulled his car up to Santos, Santos was bleeding. He banged on the officer's side

window, mounted the hood and banged on the windshield. 

The officer drew his gun, repeatedly ordered Santos to get away from the car and radioed for help, Martin said.

Santos walked away a short distance before turning around and walking back toward the officer. 

"Get down on the ground," Roselle, now standing outside his car, told the man. 

"Don't do it," Santos, who lived in New Jersey, told the officer.  

As Santos got closer, Roselle fired five times, according to the prosecutor's statement. Santos was pronounced

dead at a local hospital. The cause of death was found to be multiple gunshot wounds. After the shooting,

protesters and counterprotesters gathered near the scene in support of Santos and the officer.  

Roselle is the second Pennsylvania officer charged in connection with a fatal shooting this summer. On June 27,

East Pittsburgh police Officer Michael Rosfeld was charged with criminal homicide in the shooting death of 17-

year-old Antwon Rose II, according to court records.  

Antwon was shot in the face, right arm and the middle of his back, the criminal complaint said. The young man

was in a car suspected in an earlier shooting but did not appear to be the shooter. The complaint also said Rosfeld

made inconsistent statements about whether he believed Antwon had a gun when the officer opened fire. 

After the Santos shooting, Roselle told an officer at the scene that he thought he "f----d up" and "didn't know what

to do" when Santos came at him, according to Martin. He repeated the assertion that he had made a mistake to

others later. The prosecutor said the officer could have engaged Santos with his baton, pepper spray or Taser.  

"This tragic incident is a reminder that split-second decisions can have grave consequences," South Whitehall

Township Police Chief Glen Dorney told reporters Tuesday.  

Martin said Santos may have been asking people on the boulevard for help.  

"In this case, there is no evidence that Mr. Santos was armed with any weapon and no evidence that he had

committed or attempted to commit a forcible felony," the prosecutor said in his statement. Roselle's "belief that he

needed to defend himself with deadly force" was unreasonable and unjustified, the statement said.  

Martin said that when Santos turned back toward the officer, he was walking.  

"He was not running or rushing," the statement said. "He did not have anything visible in his hands; he was not

clenching his fists; he did not present a threatening posture." 

Additionally, the statement said Santos is heard on video, as the officer points a gun at him, saying "Don't do it." 

"While it is true that Mr. Santos failed to comply with the officer's legitimate commands to get down on the ground,

there is no objective (evidence) that Officer Roselle was in danger of imminent serious bodily injury or death."  

Roselle has been placed on administrative leave. His attorney, Gavin Holihan, said in a statement that the officer

believes "his actions were justified and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances evident at the time." 

"He believes that when all of the evidence is presented publicly, any fair citizen will reach the same conclusion he

reached: that the deadly force used on July 28 was justified and appropriate." 

Martin said the shooting was "the act of a relatively inexperienced officer who held a subjective fear for his own

safety; but, made a decision which objectively was unreasonable in light of the facts."  

At a news conference Tuesday, Dorney offered thoughts and prayers to the Santos family as well as Roselle and

his family. "I know this decision does not bring closure to Mr. Joseph Santos' family, but it may help gain some," he

said. 

This incident does not change that." 

He said of Roselle, "Knowing Jonathan as I do, he is a man of honor and integrity and a good person to the core.

Roselle graduated from the Allentown Police Academy in December 2017 and later underwent 13 weeks of field

Pennsylvania Pittsburgh Pennsylvania United States--US Afghanistan New Jersey

training, the statement said. He is a major in the National Guard.  
 
 


 
In his final moments, Joseph Santos asked for help even as he frightened a motorist by jumping on her moving car

on Hamilton Boulevard. That offense brought him face to face with a rookie South Whitehall Township police

officer, whose order to "get on the ground" he ignored. 

Walking toward Officer Jonathan Roselle, Santos, who clearly had no weapon, uttered his last words. "Don't do it,"

he pleaded, as Roselle unloaded five shots. 

Seven months after joining the police department, Roselle, a 33-year-old Army veteran of Afghanistan, was charged

Tuesday with voluntary manslaughter and surrendered to authorities. 

At a news conference Tuesday, Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin called Santos' July 28 death unjustified,

based on the findings of a state police investigation. 

"This was an act of a relatively inexperienced officer who held a subjective fear for his own safety, but he made a

decision which objectively was unreasonable in light of the facts," Martin said. 

Roselle, who was hired in December and had been on patrol by himself for only five months, questioned his own

actions immediately, according to court documents. 

He told an officer and then a supervisor who arrived on the scene that he thought he "f---ed up," the documents

note. 

him. 

Martin confirmed that Santos, 44, of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., was not armed. 

He said police interviewed 11 witnesses, finding that Santos was jumping and pounding on cars and asking some

motorists for help. Not everything Santos was saying was captured on the officer's bodycam or car dashcam,

Martin said, but he was heard pleading to Roselle, "Don't do it," before being shot. 

Weeping as they stood outside the courthouse listening to Martin's press conference, Santos' family vowed to see

that Roselle is convicted and stripped of his badge. The NAACP also called upon South Whitehall Township to fire

Calling Roselle "trigger happy," Arlene Figueroa, the mother of one of Santos' children, asked why he was allowed

to work without a partner, given that he was too inexperienced to handle stressful situations. 

"I don't wish him harm," Figueroa said, as she clutched a sign with pictures of Santos and their 8-year-old daughter.

"I pray that he's able to close his eyes and not picture what I see at night." 

Roselle, who lives in Parryville, joined South Whitehall after graduating from the Allentown Police Academy and

was set to spend the first 14 weeks on the job in field training. Before that he was in the Army, and public records

show he attended Binghamton University-SUNY. Martin said Roselle is in the National Guard, where he holds the

rank of major. 

He was charged by District Judge Michael Faulkner with one count of voluntary manslaughter - a felony

punishable by up to 20 years in prison - and released on $75,000 unsecured bail. 

In a prepared statement, Roselle's attorney Gavin Holihan, said, "Officer Roselle believes now, as he did on July 28,

that his actions were justified and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances evident at the time. He

respects the system of justice he has sworn to uphold and he eagerly awaits the opportunity to be heard at trial.

He believes that when all of the evidence is presented publicly, any fair citizen will reach the same conclusion he

reached: that the deadly force used on July 28 was justified and appropriate." 

South Whitehall Police Chief Glen Dorney said Roselle is on paid leave and that his department is conducting an

He and Martin offered their condolences to Santos' family. And Dorney also offered condolences to Roselle, saying

He called his officer "a man of honor and integrity and a good person to the core," adding, "this incident does not

internal investigation of the shooting. 

the shooting has "affected him dearly." 

change that." 

'Get on the ground' 

Santos spent most of July 28 with relatives at Dorney Park, celebrating the birthdays of his girlfriend's two teenage

sons. His girlfriend told The Morning Call she was unaware he had left the park and that she had spent a frantic

night trying to find him before finding out about his death the next day. 

Santos, who had a history with drugs but had gained sobriety in recent years and helped others get off drugs, was

on probation for a drug possession charge in New Jersey at the time of his death, court records show. His sister,

Iris Guzman of Reading, said days after his death that relatives were trying to determine how he ended up in traffic

on Hamilton Boulevard. She said he did not have mental health issues. 

At about 5:45 p.m. on July 28, several people called 911 about a man interfering with traffic. Videos circulating on

social media show a shoeless man hanging onto a moving car. Martin said some vehicles were damaged,

including one in which a window was ripped out. 

According to court documents, Roselle was parked on the median on Hamilton Boulevard, monitoring traffic, when

a hysterical woman pulled up beside him and reported that a man had tried to enter her car. He made a U-turn and

saw a man who was bleeding and walking toward him. Roselle radioed for backup, telling dispatchers he may be

dealing with a person with a mental issue. Before anyone else arrived, Santos banged on the driver side window,

then climbed on the SUV's hood and pounded in "slow lethargic motions" on the windshield, dislodging the SUV's

dashcam. He got off the hood and banged on the passenger side window a few times before appearing exhausted

as he leaned on the vehicle. 

Roselle drew his 9 mm handgun while he was still sitting in the driver's seat and pointed it at Santos after the first

bang on his car window, the documents state. When Santos stopped banging, Roselle got out of the car and

ordered him to back away from the vehicle, keeping the gun pointed at him. 

In videos posted on social media, Santos is seen walking away from the stopped police cruiser, then reversing

course as the officer shouts repeatedly for him to "get on the ground." As he approaches Roselle, he slightly raises

then lowers a hand. 

Martin pointed out that Santos was walking, not running or rushing toward the officer. That nothing was in his

hands, his fists were not clenched and his posture was not threatening, even as he faced Roselle's gun. "Don't do

it," Martin said Santos could be heard saying. 

Five shots rang out and Santos collapsed to the ground. Lehigh County Coroner Scott Grim later said Santos died

of multiple gunshots, though he wouldn't say how many hit him. 

Officer Kevin Smith was the first to arrive and helped Roselle perform CPR on Santos. 

As they did, Roselle told Smith he thought he "f---ed up," court documents say. He told Smith he "didn't know what

to do" because Santos kept coming at him, the records say. When Sgt. Kevin Edelheiser arrived, Roselle again said

that he thought he had messed up, adding that he should have just stayed in his vehicle but he thought Santos

might go into traffic. 

No malice 

shot him." 

Before Martin's decision was announced, the NAACP had joined South Whitehall Township Commissioner Mark

Pinsley and others in asking the district attorney to turn the case over to the state Attorney General's Office.

Questioning Martin's objectivity, the NAACP pointed to a comment he made at a news conference the night of the

shooting in which he said the officer "encountered the gentleman and unfortunately had to use his weapon and

Martin acknowledged Tuesday that he poorly chose his words that night. He added that he does not believe race

played a role in the shooting and that Roselle did not act out of malice but out of the "unreasonable mistaken belief

that he was justified in doing so." 

Martin said the voluntary manslaughter charge - which the state code defines as a killing by someone acting under

a sudden and intense passion - reflects that Roselle was not justified in using deadly force, given that Santos was

not armed or committing a felony and that deadly force was not necessary to prevent death or secure an arrest. He

opted to use a gun instead of less lethal options at his disposal, notably a baton, pepper spray and Taser - all of

which were in working order, Martin said. 

He said his office will not release bodycam or dashcam videos because they are part of the evidence in the case. 

The NAACP called Roselle a "menace," adding that "members of the public are not safe while this individual

continues to carry a badge and a gun." 

The organization said it conducted its own investigation, led by Tony Phillips, a retired Allentown police officer and

vice president of the local branch, and concluded that the officer "Illegally and wrongfully shot five bullets at

Joseph Santos in a situation where the officer's life was not in jeopardy and where lethal force was not called for

or appropriate." 

American officers. 

or other racial minority. 

The organization also called on South Whitehall to add more minority officers to its roster and to better train its

police force in racial bias and when to use lethal force. According to the NAACP, the township has no African-

There appear to be no African-American officers among the 34 police officers pictured in a group photo on the

department's website. Asked Tuesday, Dorney would not say if any member of his force is African-American, Latino

At a vigil for Santos last week, his brother, Luis Santos, made reference to the numerous incidents of unarmed men

of color being shot by police in recent years, and asked the crowd if the fact that his brother was Latino may have

factored into his death. "If he was white, would they have gone a different route?" 

"Yes," shouted the 100 or so in the crowd. 

Make the Road PA, one of the vigil's organizers, issued a statement Tuesday supporting Martin's decision and

noting that it's just the first step. 

"While the indictment is important we know that many police are indicted but not found guilty and as a community

we demand that all necessary resources be provided to ensure a conviction," Director Adanjesús Marín said in the

statement. 

seven weeks. 

"We also recognize the indictment of this officer does not address the overarching problem of police who resort to

deadly force as their first option," he added. "Together with the community we will present demands for changes in

police departments throughout the valley to ensure that this never happens again." 

Santos' killing is different from the last two fatal officer-involved shootings in Lehigh County in that he did not

appear to be armed. In the previous cases, Martin found the shootings justified, making his rulings after about

The last Lehigh Valley police officer charged with killing someone was Easton officer Scott C. Cameron, who shot

and killed John Rapp on Christmas Eve in 1998. 

Cameron found Rapp asleep at the wheel of his parked vehicle in Palmer Township and knocked on the window.

The startled driver sped off, knocking the officer over. Cameron shot at the fleeing Rapp, hitting him in the back of

the head. 

State police determined the three-year police veteran was not justified to use deadly force. Cameron eventually

pleaded guilty to involuntary manslaughter and served 18 months in prison. About two dozen officers attended his

guilty plea, wearing blue ribbons as a show of support. 

Pamela Lehman, Michelle Merlin and Daniel Patrick Sheehan contributed to this story. 

TIMELINE OF EVENTS 

South Whitehall Township police officer Jonathan R. Roselle has been charged with voluntary manslaughter in the

shooting death of Joseph Santos near Dorney Park on July 28. A timeline of events, according to Lehigh County

District Attorney Jim Martin (times are approximate): 

5:44 p.m.: Roselle is on traffic duty at Lincoln Avenue and Hamilton Boulevard when a woman reports that a man

had approached and tried to enter her vehicle on Hamilton. 

5:50 p.m.: Roselle encounters Santos on east berm of Hamilton. Santos bangs on Roselle's driver side window,

mounts the hood of his car and bangs on the windshield. Santos dismounts, bangs on passenger side window.

Roselle reports the incident and asks for backup because he believes Santos has a mental condition. He

unholsters his gun and points it at Santos, telling him to get away from his vehicle. Santos walks away south on

Hamilton for a short distance, then reverses course and walks back toward Roselle's car. Roselle tells Santos

repeatedly to "get down on the ground." Santos does not comply, continues to walk toward Roselle, who fires five

shots. 

5:52 p.m.: Roselle radios "shots fired" and requests an ambulance. Backup arrives and CPR on Santos is begun. 

Santos is transported to Lehigh Valley Hospital-Cedar Crest where he was pronounced dead. Lehigh County

Coroner Scott Grim rules the cause of death is multiple gunshot wounds and the manner of death is homicide. 

Credit: By Manuel Gamiz Jr.; Sarah M. Wojcik; ;Laurie Mason Schroeder; Carol Thompson - Of The Morning Call -

Pamela Lehman, Michelle Merlin and Daniel Patrick Sheehan contributed to this story. 

Caption: Joseph Santos, moments before the shooting July 28 along Hamilton Boulevard in South Whitehall

Township, in screen grab from a video.  

cars on Hamilton Boulevard near Dorney Park.  

Joseph Santos was killed by South Whitehall Township police after, witnesses say, he was jumping on moving

South Whitehall Township police officer Jonathan Roselle, 33, has been charged with voluntary manslaughter in

the fatal shooting of Joseph Santos on Hamilton Boulevard.  

Arlene Figueroa, ex-wife of Joseph Santos, speaks to the media Tuesday after DA Jim Martin's press conference: 'I

don't wish him harm,' she said of officer Jonathan Roselle. 'I pray that he's able to close his eyes and not picture

what I see at night.' 

Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin: 'This was an act of a relatively inexperienced officer who held a

subjective fear for his own safety, but he made a decision which objectively was unreasonable in light of the facts.' 

Alice Casey of Lower Macungie Township holds up a sign during a protest/vigil along Hamilton Boulevard last

week. 

THE MORNING CALL 

CONTRIBUTED PHOTO 

South Whitehall Township Police  

RICK KINTZEL/THE MORNING CALL  

RICK KINTZEL/THE MORNING CALL  

RICK KINTZEL/THE MORNING CALL 
 
 


 
Joseph Santos was alone when he collapsed Saturday on a patch of grass along Hamilton Boulevard, dead from a

South Whitehall Township police officer’s bullets. 

More than a hundred people stood at that site on Wednesday, praying, wailing and shouting in protest over his

death. They were there to support his grieving family. They were there to honor Santos, who was a father and a

friend. They were there as people of color who feel their communities are too often targeted by police violence. 

Most of all, they were there to remember the man who was killed shortly after celebrating birthdays with his family

at Dorney Park and Wildwater Kingdom across the street. 

“Say his name,” someone shouted as the protesters marched down Hamilton Boulevard. 

“Joseph Santos,” the crowd returned. 

The protest was organized by Make the Road PA, which advocates for Latino communities, and other area activist

groups, including the NAACP. The protesters held their signs toward passing traffic, chanting against police

brutality, before gathering around Santos’ friends and family. 

Santos’ brother looked out at the crowd and asked: Would it have been different if “Joey” was white. 

“If he was white, would they have gone a different route?” Luis Santos asked. “Yes,” they shouted. 

Ruth Santos, who was once married to Joseph Santos, tried to address the crowd but was overcome and collapsed

into tears. 

In the march down Hamilton Boulevard, she clutched his picture, then knelt with his family around flowers, signs

and pictures of Santos at the spot where he lay bleeding Saturday night. 

Around 5:45 p.m. that night, a South Whitehall police officer requested backup for a possible “mental issue” after

responding to a report of a man interfering with traffic on Hamilton Boulevard by Dorney Park. Witnesses said the

man was jumping on moving vehicles, and videos posted on social media show him hanging off a police car. 

In a witness’ video obtained by The Morning Call, Santos is leaning against a police car, walks away, and then turns

around to approach the police car. He does not appear to be armed. The officer is heard saying repeatedly “get on

the ground” as Santos moves toward him. The officer then fires five shots and Santos collapses. In the backdrop,

roller coasters roar at Dorney Park, where his fiancee, Juliana Valenzuela, frantically searched for him until the park

closed, not realizing he had left. 

The next day, a friend sent her a video of the shooting. She described Santos’ death as “unjustifiable.” 

The shooting resonated with Yolanda Valentin of Salisbury Township, who attended Wednesday’s protest with her

husband, Angel, to let Santos’ family know they are not alone. She questioned why the officer went for his gun

instead of employing a less lethal tactic, and said the shooting makes it hard for Hispanics to trust the police. 

“So who do we go to?” she said. 

and doughnuts with police occasionally. 

Nasheera Brown, 15, of Allentown, said she didn’t expect something like this to happen here. She shares coffee

“It makes me really want to cry,” she said. “It was really wrong what they did. They shot him and it broke my trust

because he was doing nothing wrong. He was innocent. For that to happen somewhere public, where I go, it’s

really heartbreaking and sad.” 

Alex Soto of South Whitehall, said she’s concerned about her two Latino sons when they are out in public. 

“They are still at risk despite my biggest efforts at home, just based on their appearance,” she said. 

Carol Gonzalez of Allentown said she is sick and tired of seeing police kill people of color “for no reason.” 

“The climate has been conducive to this type of thing for a while now, and it’s not getting any better,” she said.

“Until police are called to account for their actions, it’s not going to change.” 

Such shootings, which have prompted sometimes violent protests across the country in recent years, happen

because of the “warrior mentality that cops have today,” Arty Ravitz, 79, of Easton said. “It’s ‘shoot first and ask

questions later’ and it’s the worst kind of policing America can have right now.” 

The Lehigh County coroner’s office said Santos died of multiple gunshot wounds and his death was ruled a

homicide —meaning he was killed by another person, not that the act was determined to be criminal. 

South Whitehall police have not commented on the shooting, which is being investigated by state police. Mark

Pinsley, a South Whitehall commissioner who is running for state Senate, said he planned to ask Lehigh County

District Attorney Jim Martin to refer the case to the state attorney general’s office. 

Angel Valentin said it makes sense for a prosecutor with no connection to the county to oversee the investigation. 

Authorities have not released the name of the officer involved, who is on paid leave. 

Five miles from the vigil, at the South Whitehall Township commissioners meeting, police Chief Glen A. Dorney

offered his condolences to the Santos family and to his officer, saying, “This has touched more than two people.” 

Many of those touched remained on Hamilton Boulevard until the sun set and the weather cooled. They slowly

dispersed, giving Santos’ family time to grieve at the scene of his death. 

cthompson@mcall.com 

Twitter @thompsoncarolk 

610-778-2259 

Madeleine Cook contributed to this story.  

Credit: Carol Thompson, Sarah Wojcik, Michelle Merlin 
 
 


 
Aug. 08--A South Whitehall Township police officer has been charged with voluntary manslaughter in the July 28

shooting death of Joseph Santos on Hamilton Boulevard. 

Lehigh County District Attorney Martin identified the officer as Jonathan Roselle, 33, who has been with South

Whitehall Township since December and only on patrol by himself for five months. Martin said Roselle knew

immediately that he would come under scrutiny for his actions, telling his superiors afterward, "I [screwed] up." 

After Martin announced charges in the case, Gavin Holihan, one of Roselle's attorneys, issued a statement: 

Officer Jonathan Roselle has been charged with voluntary manslaughter for the July 28, 2018 death of Joseph

Santos. While the loss of a life is always unfortunate, it is not always unjustified. Police officers face challenges

every shift that may require split second decisions. Those decisions are then calmly reviewed, with 20/20

hindsight, by the criminal justice system, those in political office, the media and the public. 

Officer Roselle believes now, as he did on July 28, that his actions were justified and appropriate based on the

facts and circumstances evident at the time. He respects the system of justice he has sworn to uphold and he

eagerly awaits the opportunity to be heard at trial. He believes that when all of the evidence is presented publicly,

any fair citizen will reach the same conclusion he reached: that the deadly force used on July 28 was justified and

appropriate. 

Make the Road PA, which advocates for Latino communities, joined Santos family members for their own news

conference after Martin spoke. Here is the statement their director, Adanjesús Marín, released afterward: 

"We welcome the DA's announcement that the officer that murdered Joey Santos will be indicted. This is just one

step on the road to justice. While the indictment is important we know that many police are indicted but not found

guilty and as a community we demand that all necessary resources be provided to ensure a conviction. 

"While we push for a swift conviction of the officer we also remember the countless Black and Brown sisters and

brothers across the country who never see their killer cops held accountable. 

"We continue to call for justice for all Black and Brown victims of police murder. We know that this case is not the

exception but rather another of so many indicators that the entire system is stacked against People of Color and

poor people. 

"We live in a country where those in power encourage and support state murder, and profiteering through the

corrupt prison industrial complex. We know that Joey's case is not an isolated incident but a systematic problem

in which the color of our skins and the accents we hold are considered deadly weapons. 

"We also recognize the indictment of this officer does not address the overarching problem of police who resort to

deadly force as their first option. Together with the community we will present demands for changes in police

depts throughout the valley to ensure that this never happens again." 
 
 


 
HASBROUCK HEIGHTS, N.J. - Joseph Santos and his fiancee joined relatives Saturday at Dorney Park and

Wildwater Kingdom for a birthday celebration. 

By the end of the day, Santos, 44, was dead - struck down by multiple shots from a South Whitehall Township

police officer's gun. His girlfriend, Juliana Valenzuela, unaware he had left the park, became increasingly frantic to

find him, as roller coasters and their riders roared and shrieked overhead. When the park closed, Valenzuela filed a

missing persons report with park security and drove home to New Jersey wracked with worry. 

"I was crying," Valenzuela said. "My stomach turned." 

Certain something was wrong, Valenzuela called the hospital she and her sons passed on Interstate 78, but no one

there could ease her fear. 

It wasn't until Sunday morning that Valenzuela learned of the shooting. A co-worker sent her a witness' video, by

then going viral across the internet, and she saw what had happened to the man she called her sweetheart and

Valenzuela said she spent the next two days crying, mourning Santos. But speaking on the steps of the apartment

they shared in Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., with her three teenage sons, two whose birthdays they were celebrating at

Dorney Park, her grief was masked by a stoic determination to find justice for Santos, whose killing, she said, was

"You don't shoot someone multiple times in the stomach and drop him when he has his hands in the air,"

best friend. 

unjustifiable. 

Valenzuela said. 

A South Whitehall Township police officer, responding to a report of a person interfering with traffic, encountered

Santos around 5:45 p.m. on Hamilton Boulevard across from Dorney Park. Witnesses said he was jumping on

moving vehicles and hanging onto the police car before the officer stopped. 

In videos, he is seen walking away from the police car, then reversing course and walking toward the officer, who is

heard demanding that he "get on the ground." Santos, who did not appear to be armed, can be seen raising a hand,

then lowering it before five shots ring out and he collapses. 

Santos' sister, Iris Guzman, who lives in Reading, said she can't imagine her brother so out of control, as witnesses

described. She knew him as funny, outgoing and affectionate. She acknowledged he dealt with drug issues in the

past but said he wasn't known for bizarre behavior and didn't have mental health issues. 

Santos worked at a number of part-time and seasonal jobs in warehouses and on construction sites, Valenzuela

said, but struggled to overcome others' judgments about his looks. 

"People look at you and they stereotype you," Valenzuela said of Santos, a burly, bearded and tattooed man. "In

reality, he was a real good person." 

Luis Santos said his brother's view of the world was shaped by the impact of drug use on those around him. 

"We live in a drug-infested area," Luis Santos said of the downtown Paterson, N.J., neighborhood where Joseph,

Luis and Guzman grew up blocks from the Arrow Fastener stapler factory where both of their parents worked after

moving to New Jersey from Puerto Rico. "We used to see our friends die from drug overdoses." 

Joseph Santos gave talks about the harm of drug use at schools and treatment groups, Luis Santos said. 

Because their mother was dealing with addiction during their childhood, Guzman said she mostly raised Santos,

though she was only four years his senior. That bond, she said, makes his death particularly painful. 

"I keep crying. I can hardly sleep. All I keep thinking is why," she said. 

At the time of his death, Santos was on probation, having pleaded guilty to drug possession in June after a traffic

stop in Cranford, N.J. Valenzuela said those drugs were years old, forgotten in the pocket of a coat. Her fiance, she

said, was clean.  

Valenzuela and Luis Santos said they expect to attend a vigil Wednesday night for Santos near the shooting scene.

Scheduled for 5:30 p.m. at Lincoln Avenue and Hamilton Boulevard, the event, which is also referred to in a news

release as a protest, is being organized by Make the Road PA, which advocates for Latino communities, along with

the Allentown NAACP; the Allentown Coalition for Economic Dignity; the faith-based Nehemiah Collaborative;

NextGen Pennsylvania, a political action group; Women's March, Pennsylvania chapter; and Juventud en Camino,

Make the Road's youth organization. 

"This act of extreme police brutality is not a fluke or an accident, but part of the police system that regularly works

to detain, deport and kill black and brown people across the country," Make the Road said in the release. "Our

members stand with the family and all families that face brutality at the hands of an overzealous and destructive

police force. We remain vigilant while we wait for more details." 

The Lehigh County coroner's office Tuesday said Santos died from "multiple gunshot wounds," but did not say how

many. Santos' death was ruled a homicide, which means he was killed by someone else, not that the act was

criminal. Coroner Scott Grim said his office is awaiting the results of toxicology tests on Santos, which could take

weeks. 

The officer, whose identity has not been released, is on paid leave while state police investigate the shooting.

South Whitehall Township Commissioner Mark Pinsley said Tuesday he'll ask Lehigh County District Attorney Jim

Martin to refer the investigation to the state attorney general's office to avoid the perception of bias. 

"I want to ensure that there is a proper, unbiased and transparent investigation conducted and no appearance of

conflict," Pinsley, a state Senate candidate, said in a prepared statement. "The best way to ensure public faith in

our justice system is for a neutral party to conduct the investigation." 

Pinsley said he plans to attend the vigil before the South Whitehall commissioners' regular meeting convenes at 7

p.m. He is the only township official to comment publicly on the shooting. 

Valenzuela said she met Sunday morning with Lehigh County Detective James Bruchak, deputy coroner Michael

Bartholomew and state police Trooper Thomas Rummerfield, who told her only that there was an altercation

between Santos and the police officer.  

the investigation. 

When Valenzuela pressed for more details, the officials told her they couldn't discuss the case further because of

Valenzuela can't make sense of the reports that Santos was interfering with traffic and grabbing passing cars.

According to one account, he ripped a window from a car. 

Luis Santos also said the behavior described by authorities was unlike his brother. 

"There were times when he would get serious, but he was never a violent person," Luis Santos said. 

Guzman said the family wants answers from police. 

"What was that cop thinking? What was going through his head?" she asked. "Why didn't he use a Taser, you could

see in the video he wasn't armed. What threat could he really have been to them?" 

Wednesday will also mark the first time South Whitehall Township Commissioners will meet since the shooting.  

Township commissioner President Christina Tori Morgan and Vice President Glenn Block did not respond to

messages. 

"I think we need to stand with the people so they know we represent them and we're part of this community,"

Pinsley said. "More than anything else, we want them to know there is transparency throughout this process." 

Pinsley is running for state Senate against longtime Republican incumbent Sen. Pat Browne. 

The first police officer on scene radioed for backup, describing Santos as having a possible "mental issue,"

according to the recording of Lehigh County 911 dispatches provided by Broadcastify. He indicates Santos is

bleeding from his arm. 

Christine Schiavo contributed to this story. 

Santos damaged vehicles, including ripping the window off of one, according to the district attorney's office. 

Credit: By Peter Hall; ;Sarah M. Wojcik; ;Laurie Mason Schroeder - Of The Morning Call - Christine Schiavo

contributed to this story. 

Caption: Joseph Santos 
 
 


 
Five miles from a protest over the death of Joseph Santos, the leadership of South Whitehall Township said they

won’t make any statement about the police shooting and the investigation. 

Commissioner President Christina Tori Morgan said “out of respect for the process” the police chief’s comments at

Wednesday’s municipal meeting would be the only ones from the township body. 

Any other comments by commissioners do not reflect the views of township leadership, she said. 

Only Commissioner Mark Pinsley, who is running for state office, has commented on the shooting. He’s called for

Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin to recuse himself from the probe and attended Wednesday evening’s

vigil and march along Hamilton Boulevard. 

process. 

South Whitehall police Chief Glen Dorney called on the public to reserve judgment and respect the investigative

In addition to the state police and district attorney’s probe into the shooting, Dorney said his department is

conducting its own internal investigation to determine whether the officer followed department protocol. 

“I have the utmost confidence in the Pennsylvania State Police and the Lehigh County district attorney’s office and

assure you that a thorough and unbiased investigation will occur,” Dorney said. “Our thoughts and prayers are with

Mr. Santos’ family and the police officer involved in this tragic incident, as well as his family. This has touched

more than just two people, so please keep everyone in your thoughts and prayers.” 

The meeting was the first time leaders in the township gathered since the Saturday shooting that killed Santos, 44,

of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., across the street from Dorney Park and Wildwater Kingdom. 

There was no crowd at the South Whitehall meeting. The roughly 15-person turnout is not atypical of a

commissioner meeting. 

The most glaring difference was the increase in law enforcement. Squad cars from South Whitehall and Upper

Macungie Township police were parked at the building. A South Whitehall policeman stood by the commissioners’

dais throughout the meeting, watching the audience. 

The official township silence on the shooting didn’t stop three in the audience from approaching the microphone

during public comment. 

Chris Cocca, a South Whitehall resident who grew up in the township and serves as a pastor in Lowhill Township,

said he wondered if the increasing diversity of the area is reflected in the township police department. 

The township should be mindful of maintaining a police force that represents those it protects, Cocca said,

particularly in the section of the township where Santos was killed, an area full of out-of-town visitors and

Allentown residents. 

Julie Thomases, a west Allentown woman associated with the nonprofit human rights group Leadership Power LV,

called on South Whitehall to establish better use-of-force training, Spanish language skills and an independently

funded citizen review board to hold law enforcement accountable during incidents of abuse. 

“We see the death of Joseph Santos as the spark needed to enact reforms to our criminal justice system so that

Mr. Santos can leave behind a legacy of justice and racial equity for all residents,” Thomases said. 

Dan Poresky, an Allentown resident, mentioned the July 19 arrest of a machete-wielding man who pointed a

shotgun at police and tossed Molotov cocktails toward officers during a standoff in Easton. The suspect, 27-year-

old Jeffrey Folkner Jr. was white, Poresky noted. 

“Compare that with what happened to Joseph Santos,” he said. “Think about if he was white. Now that’s the

message that people of color in the community see.” 

swojcik@mcall.com 

Twitter @Sarah_M_Wojcik 

610-778-2283 

Credit: Sarah M. Wojcik 
 
 


 
After learning that the South Whitehall Township police officer who fatally shot Joseph Santos was charged

criminally, Santos’ family vowed Tuesday to make sure the officer is convicted and stripped of his badge. 

Calling officer Jonathan Roselle “trigger happy,” Arlene Figueroa, the mother of one of Santos’ children, said she

could not understand why Roselle, a rookie, wasn’t working with a partner, since he appeared to be too

inexperienced to handle stressful situations. 

had only been on patrol alone for five months. 

Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin said Roselle graduated from the Allentown Police Academy in 2017 and

“I don’t wish him harm,” Figueroa said of Roselle, as she clutched a sign that displayed pictures of Santos’ and

their 8-year-old daughter. “I pray that he’s able to close his eyes and not picture what I see at night.” 

The family spoke moments after Martin announced his decision to charge Roselle with voluntary manslaughter, a

felony. They gathered on the sidewalk outside the courthouse in Allentown with their attorney, Robert Eyre, and

Eyre said they are considering a wrongful death lawsuit. He said the district attorney’s decision in finding the

killing unjustified was a “step in the right direction” that will help the family find closure. 

“This was an important event that a lot of people did not expect, so we need to think carefully about what that

means for a civil remedy,” Eyre said. “There’s a tendency in these things, and it often doesn’t go this way. There’s

anger but there’s gratefulness for this much.” 

Martin’s decision did little to appease community activists who stood with the Santos family as they addressed

Adanjesus Marin, director of Make the Road Pennsylvania, which advocates for Latino communities, said Santos’

death was not isolated but part of a systemic problem in which people of color are too often targets of police

others. 

the media. 

violence. 

At his news conference, Martin acknowledged the “overarching problem of police who resort to deadly force as a

first option.” He added, “Together with the community, we will present demands of changes [we want made at]

police departments throughout the valley and state to ensure this never happens again.” 

Ashleigh Strange, Make the Road’s spokeswoman, said the organization will support the Santos family through the

court process and keep pressure on Lehigh Valley police. 

“You can see from the makeup of the police officers in this area that it’s skewed. And we want to make sure from

now on that it’s skewed toward justice. That’s what we’ve been fighting for for years.” 

Strange and the NAACP said they want Roselle off the force. Police Chief Glen Dorney said he is on paid leave. 

“If they convict this officer, and we hope that they will, he won’t be able to serve from behind bars,” Strange said. 

Figueroa said Santos’ funeral arrangements have not yet been finalized but that the family was told they must

have a closed casket because his face was disfigured by a bullet. 

She said the family will be keeping a close eye on the case to make sure Santos gets the justice he deserves. 

“We have to keep fighting,” she said. “This is just a hurdle right now. We got over this hurdle by the grace of God,

And we’re going to keep getting over because we will have justice for Joey. As long as we have air in our lungs, we

Company / organization:

Name: National Association for the Advancement of Colored People--NAACP; NAICS:

will fight for Joey. He didn’t deserve this.” 

Credit: Laurie Mason Schroeder, Carol Thompson 
 
 


 
ALLENTOWN, Pa. (AP) - Video taken before police fatally shot a man near a Pennsylvania amusement park shows

the man hanging on or jumping on two moving cars including a police car.  

A witness posted the videos on Facebook Thursday and said she witnessed 44-year-old Joseph Santos "act like a

complete maniac and scare the lives of those behind the wheel" last Saturday outside Dorney Park.  

One video shows Santos, of Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey, hanging onto a moving white car. Another shows him

climbing on the hood of a police SUV. The vehicle drives slowly a short distance with him on the hood then pulls

off the road.  

officer confronted him.  

Police said this week that witnesses told them Santos was damaging cars and interfering with traffic before an

The Lehigh County coroner concluded Santos died from multiple gunshot wounds. The office is awaiting the

results of toxicology tests. Pennsylvania state police are investigating to determine if the shooting was justified.  

At a vigil near the spot of the shooting on Wednesday, friends and family members said Santos had had prior

problems with drugs but had turned his life around. They said his actions didn't justify the shooting.  

Credit: By DAN JOLING, Associated Press 
 
 


 
The video shows an unarmed man, shoeless and bloodied, walking along Hamilton Boulevard as a police officer

repeatedly orders him to stop. 

The man, Joseph Santos, continues toward the officer. Santos blurts out "don't do it" a few seconds before five

cracks of gunfire send him crumpling to the street. 

Taken by the body camera of South Whitehall Township police officer Jonathan Roselle, the video doesn't show

the rookie officer's face, but it shows the gun in his hand and the consequences. 

Moments after the gunshots rang out, the video shows officers swarming to the scene. Roselle walks away and

seems to be sitting on the passenger side of his cruiser when the video shows another officer walking up to him. 

"I told him to stop," Roselle told the officer. "I should have stayed in the car." 

Prosecutors played the graphic and dramatic video in a packed Lehigh County courtroom Thursday as they made

their case for the voluntary manslaughter charge filed against Roselle in the fatal shooting of the 44-year-old New

Jersey man. 

Court. 

The video, which lasted about six minutes, also showed one officer's desperate attempts to save the lifeless man. 

After seeing three videos projected on a courtroom wall and hearing other evidence at Roselle's preliminary

hearing in Allentown, District Judge Daniel Trexler ruled the now-fired officer must face trial in Lehigh County

Prosecutors, for the first time, revealed the autopsy findings, which found Santos had heroin and other controlled

substances in his system. 

the head and three times in the torso. 

Lehigh County Detective James Bruchak, who attended the Santos autopsy, testified that Santos was shot twice in

He also said toxicology tests revealed that Santos had five controlled substances in his system. Blood tests found

methadone, codeine, morphine and hydromorphone in Santos' system, he said, and a vitreous exam, which tests

the fluid in the eyeball, found the presence of 6-monoacetylmorphine, a metabolite of heroin. The Mayo Clinic says

the metabolite is a "definitive indication of heroin use" and "has a very short half-life." 

Relatives of Santos previously told The Morning Call that Santos had a history with drugs but had gained sobriety

in recent years. He had been on probation for a drug possession charge in New Jersey at the time of his death. 

Gavin Holihan, Roselle's attorney, argued that because Santos was under the influence, he could have possessed

extraordinary strength along with a high threshold for pain. 

Roselle's body-cam video begins with a woman pulling up beside the officer's SUV and screaming about a man

trying to get into her car. Roselle makes a U-Turn and heads north on Hamilton Boulevard, where he pulls up

behind a red Jeep. Santos can be seen next to the Jeep, which drives off shortly after Roselle stops his patrol

vehicle. 

Santos begins walking toward Roselle's vehicle on his driver's side. Roselle can be heard repeatedly ordering

Santos to "Go that way! Get in front of the vehicle!" 

The body-cam video shows Santos crawling on the hood of Roselle's police cruiser, slapping the windshield and

Roselle, a 33-year-old rookie officer, is heard calling for backup, noting that the man on his cruiser had a "possible

Roselle is already holding his service weapon and pointing it at Santos through the closed passenger-side window,

the video shows, while he repeatedly yells at Santos to get off the cruiser. 

"This guy is covered in blood and attacking my vehicle, I'm not getting out until he shows up," he tells the

grimacing at the officer. 

mental issue." 

dispatcher. 

Moments later, however, Roselle exits his cruiser and begins yelling at Santos to get on the ground. Santos keeps

walking toward Roselle as Santos says "don't do it," the video reveals, before shots ring out. 

Santos' family began to cry loudly as the shooting was shown. 

Roselle was charged just days after the shooting of Santos, who reportedly left a relative's birthday party at Dorney

Park and began jumping on moving cars on Hamilton Boulevard and asking passers-by for help with an unknown

problem. Detectives on Thursday said Santos had jumped a Dorney Park fence, losing his shoes, and ended up on

Hamilton Boulevard. 

The shooting sparked rallies in the township, some by people who saw the death of an unarmed Latino man as the

latest in a nationwide string of police shootings of unarmed men of color, and others by supporters of Roselle, an

Army veteran of Afghanistan who had been patrolling alone for only five months. 

During the hearing, Holihan battled with Chief Deputy District Attorney Jeff Dimmig during Holihan's cross-

examination of state trooper Thomas Rummerfield, who edited the videos to show only what he felt were the

relevant scenes. 

dashboard cameras. 

Rummerfield said that as part of the investigation he obtained footage from four body cameras and six vehicle

Holihan asked Rummerfield if the woman who first alerted Roselle to Santos' behavior reported the incident as a

violent attempted carjacking. The trooper said he was unsure. 

As Holihan continued with his questioning, Dimmig objected, saying Rummerfield would not be doing "play-by-

play" of everything shown in the video. 

Holihan then asked the trooper about a gesture Santos could be seen making in the video. In it, Santos twice

points two fingers toward his eyes and then to Roselle's direction, as if to say, "I see you" or "I'm watching you." 

Holihan described it as a threatening gesture, but Dimmig argued such an interpretation was something for a jury

to decide. 

he was justified in the shooting. 

Holihan pleaded with the judge that he was only trying to defend his client against the charge of voluntary

manslaughter, which prosecutors say was the result of Roselle being under an unreasonable, mistaken belief that

Holihan argued Roselle reasonably believed Santos was a threat to him and the community. He said that if Santos

would have made it to Roselle, he could have disarmed the officer and taken his police vehicle. 

Dimmig repeated that a jury would decide whether the shooting was justified, not a district judge. 

"We only have to prove three things here," Dimmig said. "That Mr. Santos was killed, that Jonathan Roselle killed

him and that his intent was to kill him." 

As the two continued going back and forth, District Attorney Jim Martin, who was seated at the prosecution table,

stood up and objected to Holihan's questioning of the trooper. 

When Holihan said he did not like Martin's "interruption," Martin replied, "I'm the district attorney of Lehigh County, I

brought these charges." 

here." 

Holihan then said it was inappropriate for the district attorney to intervene - "there's no tag team, two against one

Martin has previously said that while Santos was behaving erratically, he did not demonstrate a serious enough

threat to warrant the use of deadly force. He also has said he did not think race or police brutality played a role in

the shooting, describing it more as "the act of a relatively inexperienced officer." 

Martin has said Santos was not armed and Roselle had working nonlethal tools he could have used instead,

including a Taser, pepper spray and a baton. 

Roselle was placed on administrative leave after the shooting and was fired two weeks ago. 

Santos' family left the courtroom after the hearing and did not comment. Maegan Munoz, a representative of Make

the Road PA, which advocates for Latino communities, sat in the courtroom with them and later spoke on the

family's behalf. 

"They were very emotional seeing the video at all those different angles, seeing someone they love so much get

killed like that," Munoz said. "They were glad that it's actually going to trial. They were very nervous that it was

going to get to this point and be done and they were going to let the officer off." 

Munoz also said the family had a difficult time watching video that showed Roselle's demeanor after the shooting. 

The body-cam video of township officer Kevin Smith, the first to arrive after the shooting, shows him running

toward Roselle as Santos lies face-down in a pool of blood. 

Without being asked what happened, Roselle says, "He kept coming, he wouldn't stop." 

When Smith tells Roselle that they must perform CPR in an attempt to revive Santos, Roselle blurts out an

As Smith kneels next to Santos, he tells Roselle to get his gloves on. Roselle answers he only has one. Smith again

tells him they must perform CPR and tells Roselle to get some gloves. 

"He's done," Roselle can be heard saying. Smith says something inaudible and Roselle responds, "I know, I'm just

expletive. 

saying." 

Smith's body-camera video ends with him repeatedly performing chest compressions on Santos. 

Credit: By Manuel Gamiz Jr.; Laurie Mason Schroeder - Of The Morning Call - mgamiz@mcall.com;Twitter

Joseph Santos' son, Kenneth, ex-wife Ruth (right), and other family and friends leave the Lehigh County

Family and friends of Joseph Santos leave Lehigh County Courthouse on Thursday after ex-South Whitehall

Township police officer Jonathan Roselle was ordered to stand trial in Santos' death. 

mgamiz@mcall.com 

Twitter @mannypantalones 

610-820-6595 

@mannypantalones;610-820-6595 

Caption: Roselle 

Santos  

Courthouse after Thursday's hearing. 

RICK KINTZEL/THE MORNING CALL  

RICK KINTZEL/THE MORNING CALL 
 
 


 
Aug. 13--More than 100 people, carrying signs such as "Let police do their job" and waving Thin Blue Line American

flags, gathered peacefully Sunday afternoon near the spot on Hamilton Boulevard where South Whitehall Township

police officer Jonathan Roselle fatally shot a man two weeks ago. 

Among those participating were people who wanted to show their support for police, people who felt Roselle was

wrongly charged with voluntary manslaughter and others who believe the victim, Joseph Santos of Hasbrouck

Heights, N.J., was at least partly responsible for what happened. 

PHOTO GALLERY: More than 100 people in support of police came out to Hamilton Blvd., in South Whitehall

Township near the Comfort Inn Suites Sunday, August 12, 2018, close by where Joseph Santos was shot and killed

by South Whitehall Township Police Officer Jonathan Roselle two weeks ago. 

(RICK KINTZEL/ THE MORING CALL) 

Mike Cepress, of Catasauqua, attended the rally with his rottweiler Bonzo to show support for Roselle. He said he

has a number of friends in law enforcement and they've discussed a witness video of the shooting. None of his law

enforcement friends questioned Roselle's use of force. At worst, they said, he may have fired too many rounds, he

Regardless, Cepress said no one knows exactly what Roselle was faced with when he came face to face with

"The police officer had direct contact with him," he said. "He looked him in the eyes. He heard what he was saying.

He was there giving the individual commands and was completely ignored." 

"You can't crucify a police officer when he's trying to do his job," Cepress said. 

While he wants to see Roselle acquitted of his charge, he said the South Whitehall shooting can lead to change. He

said he thinks police officers should not be alone in a vehicle on patrol. 

Peggy Karpeuk, of Upper Macungie, who wore a Thin Blue Line T-shirt and carried a large Thin Blue Line American

flag, said she felt bad for the situation Roselle was put in for "the guy's wrongful action." 

"In a split second he had to make such a decision on a busy road like this," she said, pointing to Hamilton

Rodney Afflerbach of North Whitehall and Richard Deibert of Catasauqua said their children know to stop what

they are doing when an officer directs them to do so. 

Afflerbach described the voluntary manslaughter charge as "harsh ... unless we don't know something [authorities]

said. 

Santos. 

Boulevard. 

know." 

Richard Kehm, 77, of Lower Macungie Township, was dressed in a red, white and blue cowboy hat and shirt and

holding #PSPStrong sign in support of state police Cpl. Seth Kelly, who was wounded in a gun battle last

November on Route 33 in Plainfield Township. 

Dashcam footage of the Route 33 shooting was released last week, and Kehm said it shows how quickly things

can escalate when officers are dealing with a person refusing commands and resisting arrest. 

"Thank God he was alright," Kehm said. "These guys are really up against it at that moment." 

Kehm and his wife Phyllis say they have four relatives in law enforcement, including one in South Whitehall, which

is another reason they wanted to offer their support for Roselle, a rookie officer. 

"These officers, they don't know if they are going to be coming home to their families or not," she said. 

Richard Kehm said that in addition to having a dangerous job, police officers are unjustly criticized for their

actions, which are often captured on cellphone video and posted on social media. 

"I don't think I'd be able to do it," he said. "I think I would hand in my badge and gun." 

On Tuesday, Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin announced Roselle had been charged with voluntary

manslaughter, a felony punishable by up to 20 years in prison. Roselle, 33, has been on $75,000 unsecured bail. 

He said Roselle, who was hired by South Whitehall police in December, was not justified in using deadly force,

given that Santos was not armed or committing a felony and that deadly force was not necessary to prevent death

or secure an arrest. 

"This was an act of a relatively inexperienced officer who held a subjective fear for his own safety, but he made a

decision which objectively was unreasonable in light of the facts," Martin said. 

According to authorities, Santos had been jumping on moving vehicles along the 3700 block of Hamilton

Boulevard when Roselle arrived. 

Several videos shared on Facebook moments after the shooting showed Santos walking away from the stopped

police car, then reversing course as Roselle shouts repeatedly for him to get on the ground. The video then shows

the officer firing five shots. 

In the aftermath, authorities said, Roselle told a fellow officer he "f--d up." 

The rally took place at the same time community activists in Allentown held an interfaith service in Allentown to

honor Santos, 44, and call for an end to police brutality. 

Make the Road PA and other activist groups that have protested the shooting held the event at Resurrected Life

Church, Allentown. 

The idea of a pro-police rally being held at the spot where Santos died provoked immediate outrage from the

NAACP Allentown Branch -- which demanded the event be canceled. 

Barbara Redmond of the branch decided to go to the rally spot to show support for the Santos family. She said it's

"insensitive" to have this rally during their period of mourning "at the location the murder took place." 

But organizers said they planned to disband quickly if trouble erupted. 

Near the end a shouting match broke out when a woman showed up and told supporters they were supporting a

murderer. A man told her she was anti-American. Upper Macungie police arrived to watch over the exchange. 

The rally didn't included speakers, but people carried signs and mingled as some passers-by honked their horns in

a show of support. 

"People can't put themselves into our situation," said retired South Whitehall Sgt. Jeffrey Natysyn. "People who

make comments and judgments aren't put in a situation to make a split-minute decision," he said. 

The loosely organized rally drew more than 100 people. New Tripoli resident Corey Fatzinger posted the

suggestion on Facebook. That led an Upper Macungie Township woman to schedule the rally through a Facebook

page called "Support Officer Jonathan Roselle and Our Men and Women in Blue." 

At Sunday's rally, Fatzinger said he wanted to support Roselle, whom he said was "wrongly accused." 

"He did his job and now he's been hung out to dry, so he needs all the support he can get," Fatzinger said. 

He called the charges against Roselle "bulls---." 

"If the guy would've got down and listened, he'd still be here today. It's very cut and dry." 

A vigil for Santos was held in the same area on Aug. 1. It drew about 100 participants. 

CREDIT: By Manuel Gamiz Jr. and Michelle Merlin 
 
 


 
An interfaith service Sunday honoring the New Jersey man shot and killed by a South Whitehall police office grew

into a united call for justice and reform as several Lehigh Valley religious leaders took to the pulpit, insisting the

country’s humanity is at stake. 

Roughly 100 people of various ages and races gathered Sunday afternoon at the Resurrected Life Community

Church in Allentown to remember Joseph Santos, 44, of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J. Santos was killed by South

Whitehall Township police Officer Jonathan Roselle during a July 28 encounter on Hamilton Boulevard outside

Dorney Park. The Lehigh County district attorney’s office ruled the shooting unjustified. Roselle has been charged

with voluntary manslaughter. 

color. 

Though District Attorney Jim Martin said his investigation did not indicate race was a factor in the deadly shooting,

activists and religious leaders point to a flawed system they say is disproportionately violent against people of

“What is it about black and brown bodies that elicits so much violence?” asked Larry Pickens, ecumenical director

of the Lehigh County Conference of Churches. 

Pastor Greg Edwards opened the service by lifting up Santos’ loved ones and then reading aloud the names of

people killed by police officers across the nation. The long list should disturb anyone, regardless of race, religion or

ethnicity, according to Celicia Baxter, senior pastor of New Creation UCC in Palmer Township. 

A mother of two boys with another baby on the way, Baxter described the powerful love of a parent and how it

should motivate everyone to work toward a world where the humanity of the individual is seen and every person is

treated with dignity and respect. 

“We want a home where police officers only use deadly force as the absolute last resort, in the most extreme of

cases —not as the first resort,” she said. “I say this as a white mother of white boys because when one part of the

body suffers, we all suffer. Our criminal justice system has no justice until there is justice for all. We are not free,

until we are all free.” 

Rev. Benjamin T. Hailey, a senior pastor of Union Baptist Church, spoke softly to those gathered, encouraging them

to think hard about what they feel when they take stock of him: a tall, black man. 

“What do you see, when you see me? Do you see a pastor? A man of integrity? Or do you see another one of those

black boys and so you need to clutch your purse?” Hailey asked. 

“Social engineering has caused us to believe things about one another that are vastly far from the truth,” he said.

“If we really search our minds, we’ll understand that we’re really no different from one another.” 

Arlene Figueroa, the partner of Joseph Santos and the mother of his daughter, said she’s been praying for the

South Whitehall police officer charged with shooting him. 

“You were the last person to see Joey alive,” she said, trembling before Sunday’s service. “I don’t have hatred in my

heart because God ... God gives me strength. And I just pray for you.” 

Videos taken by eyewitnesses just prior to the shooting show Santos hanging off moving vehicles. When Roselle

pulls up to the scene, Santos can be seen jumping on the hood of the police cruiser and splaying himself across

the windshield. Figueroa said that behavior is not indicative of the man she knew. Asked if she knew what might

have been happening, she could only say the case remains under investigation. Authorities are awaiting the results

of a toxicology test performed at Santos’ autopsy. 

18-year relationship and an 8-year-old daughter. 

During the ceremony, a tearful Figueroa described how she and Santos were still incredibly close after a sharing an

Santos, she said, adored the girl. He would paint her nails and hold tea parties with her and her dolls. Their

daughter, Figueroa said, has autism and is still reeling from the death of her grandfather. Figueroa said she’s yet to

reveal to the girl that Santos was killed. But she knows the time is coming. 

Meanwhile, Figueroa said, the healing has been hard. 

“I have to tell my legs ‘Left and right’ every day. They say you heal day by day. But I haven’t seen no change yet.” 

Video of the encounter between Santos and Roselle shows Santos, unarmed, approaching the officer. Roselle can

be heard ordering Santos the ground, but Santos continues to walk toward him. Authorities say Santos said “don’t

do it” as he approached the officer, but didn’t comply to Roselle’s orders. 

Five shots ring out in the video before Santos crumples to the ground. 

The Lehigh County district attorney’s office has determined the shooting was not justified. District Attorney Martin

said the officer had multiple non-lethal tools with him at the time of the shooting, including a taser, a baton and

pepper spray. 

Roselle has been charged with voluntary manslaughter. Martin, in his announcement, cited the inexperience of the

officer, who’d been on patrol only five months, as a key factor in the shooting. 

The interfaith service was held at the same time as a pro-police rally organized in grassroots fashion through a

Facebook group called Support Officer Jonathan Roselle. The peaceful demonstration was held near where the

South Whitehall Township rookie officer shot and killed Santos. The rally has come under some criticism for its

choice of a location. 

swojcik@mcall.com 

Twitter @Sarah_M_Wojcik 

610-778-2283 

Credit: Sarah M. Wojcik 
 
 

Accused officer now out of a job, chief says - Express-Times, The
(Easton, PA) - September 8, 2018 - page 005
September 8, 2018 | Express-Times, The (Easton, PA) | Kurt Bresswein For The Express-Times | Page 005

South Whitehall Township no longer employs the police officer accused of fatally shooting a New
Jersey man in July near Dorney Park & Wildwater Kingdom, Police Chief Glen Dorney said Friday.

Beyond confirming that Jonathan R. Roselle is out of a job, Dorney declined to offer any further
comment.

Roselle, 33, of Parryville in Carbon County, is charged with voluntary manslaughter in the July 28
death of 44-year-old Joseph Santos

Joseph Santos , of Hasbrouck Heights.

Roselle is free on $75,000 unsecured bail with a preliminary hearing scheduled Sept. 20.

Roselle is a U.S. Army veteran who served in Afghanistan and at the time of the shooting was a
major in the Pennsylvania Army National Guard.

He graduated from the Allentown Police Academy in December, then had 13 weeks of training, and
was on patrol by himself for less than five months.

T he evening of July 28, Santos left his fiancée and her son at the park and ended up on nearby
Hamilton Boulevard.

T here, he was acting erratically, drawing police.

Once Roselle arrived, Santos allegedly banged on the officer’s driver’s side window, jumped on the
hood of the police SUV and banged on the windshield.

Santos, unarmed, allegedly ignored Roselle’s orders to get on the ground and was walking toward
the officer, who opened fire, hitting Santos five times, Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin
said in announcing Roselle’s arrest Aug. 7.

Copyrig ht 2018 The Express-Times. All Rights Reserved.

 

 
If it seemed surprising that a South Whitehall Township police officer would be charged Tuesday in the fatal

shooting of an unarmed man 10 days earlier, that's because data show it is a rare event. 

In recent years, police have shot and killed roughly 1,000 people a year, said Philip M. Stinson, a Bowling Green

University criminologist who tracks deadly police shootings. Since 2005, he said, 90 police officers, state troopers

or deputy sheriffs have been charged with murder or manslaughter, an average of about seven cases a year

nationwide. 

Of those 90 officers, 32 have been convicted - 16 by guilty plea and 16 by jury trial, Stinson said. 

The Lehigh Valley saw its first such charges in years Tuesday when Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin on

Tuesday charged officer Jonathan Roselle, 33, with voluntary manslaughter in the shooting death of Joseph

Santos, 44, of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J. Roselle shot Santos, who was not armed, July 28 on Hamilton Boulevard,

across from Dorney Park. 

manslaughter. 

The charge Roselle faces is one that more frequently ends in conviction, according to Stinson's data. When police

are convicted, Stinson said, it's usually a charge of manslaughter, voluntary manslaughter or involuntary

According to the data, 41 of the 90 officers charged fought their cases in court and walked out free. According to

Stinson, 21 were acquitted at a jury trial, nine were acquitted at a bench trial, six cases were dismissed by a

prosecutor, four were dismissed by a judge and in one case, no true bill was returned from a grand jury. 

The remaining cases are pending, he said. 

or death, he said. 

An officer is justified in using deadly force if the officer has a "reasonable apprehension" of imminent bodily injury

Stinson's data show that murder or manslaughter cases against police since 2005 usually amounted to single

digits nationwide, and then spiked to 18 in 2015. It reached 16 a year later, and then fell to six last year. His records

show five cases so far in 2018. 

Stinson, a former police officer, said the data is up to date as of Monday. 

The charge against Roselle comes as the number of deadly shootings of unarmed people by police is trending

downward, according to The Washington Post. The newspaper has been keeping a nationwide database of fatal

police shootings since the 2015 killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo. 

According to the Post report from May, police in 2015 shot and killed 94 unarmed people. The number of unarmed

people killed by police bobbed from 51 in 2016 to 68 in 2017, it said. 

At the time of the report, 18 unarmed people, eight fewer than at the same time last year, died by a police shooting

this year. 

A researcher who reviewed the Post's data said he'd need more data before he could say it's a long-term trend. But

Justin Nix of the University of Nebraska at Omaha said a combination of factors, including implicit bias training

and a "Ferguson effect" - a concern over shooting an unarmed person - may have a cumulative impact on police

officers' approach to potential shooting situations. 

At least for the last three years, Nix said, the decline has been "certainly noticeable." 

The last local case that was ruled an unjustifiable use of deadly force was in 2015, when a grand jury decided that

constable Howard "Chip" Altemos unjustifiably shot Kevin McCullers of Whitehall Township, who was wanted for

unpaid parking tickets. Altemos pleaded no contest to a misdemeanor count of recklessly endangering another

person and was ordered to serve two years of probation. 

One of the last cases in which a local officer was jailed in a shooting case was former Easton police officer Scott

Cameron, who served 18 months after pleading guilty to involuntary manslaughter in the killing of John Rapp in

U.S. police officers charged with murder or manslaughter since 2005: 

1998. 

tdarragh@mcall.com 

Twitter @tmdarragh 

610-820-6691 

OFFICERS CHARGED 

2005: 1 

2006: 7 

2007: 11 

2008: 4 

2009: 3 

2010: 5 

2011: 1 

2012: 5 

2013: 4 

2014: 7 

2015: 18 

2016: 13 

2017: 6 

2018: 5 

south whitehall police/ 

contributed photo 
 
 


 
Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin said Thursday he will not ask the state attorney general's office to take

over his investigation into the fatal shooting of a New Jersey man by a South Whitehall Township police officer. 

The request that he step aside came from South Whitehall Commissioner Mark Pinsley, who said referring the case

to the state would erase any perception of bias. 

"I will not recuse myself from the investigation. I will not be referring it to the attorney general's office," Martin told

The Morning Call. "I am perfectly capable of handling it in an unbiased fashion." 

State police are working with Martin's office to determine if the officer was justified in the Saturday shooting of

Joseph Santos, 44, of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J. South Whitehall police Chief Glen Dorney said he has confidence in

their investigation. 

According to state law, the only way the attorney general's office could take over a case is if it's referred by a

district attorney. Even then, the attorney general's office would only get involved if it found a conflict of interest

that might keep the district attorney from being objective. 

The Philadelphia district attorney's office took that step last year when it referred the fatal shooting of David Jones

to the attorney general's office. Officer Ryan Pownall, who has since been let go from the department, confronted

Jones, who was on a dirt bike and armed. After Jones, 30, ditched the bike, dropped the gun and ran, Pownall shot

him three times in the back, according to published reports. The shooting was captured by a surveillance camera. 

Kelley Hodge, who was the city's interim district attorney at the time, referred the case to the state, citing a conflict

of interest. She declined to explain that conflict, according to WHYY. 

The name of the officer involved in the South Whitehall shooting has not been released. He responded about 5:45

p.m. to a report of a man interfering with traffic by jumping on cars and ripping out a car window. He can be heard

on police radio requesting backup to handle a "mental issue." 

New videos posted on Facebook Thursday show a man climbing on a South Whitehall police car, then splaying

himself across the hood and windshield as the driver keeps going. 

The man, who appears to be Santos, is captured in one video hanging onto a white car heading west on Hamilton

Boulevard. Another video shows him across the street, on the hood of the police car, which moves several feet

before stopping. 

The woman who posted it wrote, "I witnessed Joseph Santos act like a complete maniac and scare the lives of

those behind the wheel. I was one of the many people who contacted the authorities to report this man. I had not

come forward because it is not my intent for people to use me to demonize a man who was simply doing his job." 

Known as Nadia Elizabeth on Facebook, the woman said she was among those who called police upon seeing

Santos jumping on cars near Dorney Park. She has met with authorities, she said, and gave them her videos. 

Other videos show Santos hanging on the passenger side of the police car before the officer gets out. Santos does

not appear to be armed. The videos show Santos walking away from the stopped police car, then reversing course

as the officer shouts repeatedly for him to "get on the ground." Santos slightly raises then lowers a hand before the

officer fires five shots and Santos collapses to the ground. 

Santos' family has called the shooting "unjustifiable."  

Martin, at a news conference Saturday night, said the officer "encountered the gentleman and unfortunately had to

use his weapon and shot him." 

Pinsley, who is running for state Senate, said Martin's comment "has led many to believe that the outcome of the

investigation has already been predetermined." 

He added that Martin's daily interactions with police "could reasonably lead to a degree of bias in this

investigation." 

By asking the attorney general to step in, Pinsley said, Martin would "avoid all appearances of impropriety." 

Martin's decision isn't out of the ordinary. In police shootings in East Pittsburgh and Harrisburg this year, district

attorneys handled the investigations. 

The Allegheny County district attorney's office investigated the June 19 fatal shooting of 17-year-old Antwon Rose

II in East Pittsburgh, deciding to file a homicide charge against police officer Michael Rosfeld. According to

published reports, Rose was unarmed when he ran from police during a traffic stop. Like Santos' death, Rose's was

captured on video by a witness. 

officer. 

The Dauphin County district attorney's office has not completed its investigation of the Feb. 1 fatal shooting of

Albert Earl Morton Jr., 31, by Harrisburg police. Morton was driving when, police say, he started speeding toward an

In all three Pennsylvania cases, the victim was either black or Hispanic. That has been the case in a number of

other incidents across the country in recent years, prompting protests and allegations of police bias. 

At a Wednesday night vigil for Santos at Hamilton Boulevard and Lincoln Avenue, the 100 or so people who

gathered demanded action to keep police from turning to lethal force. 

"If he was white, would they have gone a different route?" Santos' brother, Luis, asked those assembled. 

Across Lincoln Avenue, a handful of counterprotesters stood in support of police. 

On Facebook Thursday, Nadia Elizabeth joined that chorus: "I don't wish death upon anyone but I sure as hell don't

wish for police officer to be demonized for doing his job," she wrote. 

"Yes," they shouted. 

swojcik@mcall.com 

Twitter @Sarah_M_Wojcik 

610-778-2283 

Credit: By Sarah M. Wojcik - Of The Morning Call - swojcik@mcall.com;Twitter @Sarah_M_Wojcik;610-778-2283 

Caption: Chronological screen shots from a video obtained by The Morning Call show the seconds leading up to

the fatal shooting of Joseph Santos by a South Whitehall Township police officer on Saturday. The panels show

the progressional stages of the incident.  

Joseph Santos, 44, of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., was killed by South Whitehall Township police after, witnesses say,

he was jumping on moving cars on Hamilton Boulevard. 

SPECIAL TO THE MORNING CALL 

CONTRIBUTED PHOTO/ 
 
 


 
Aug. 03--Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin said Thursday he will not ask the state attorney general's

office to take over his investigation into the fatal shooting of a New Jersey man by a South Whitehall Township

police officer. 

The request that he step aside came from South Whitehall Commissioner Mark Pinsley, who said referring the case

to the state would erase any perception of bias. 

"I will not recuse myself from the investigation. I will not be referring it to the attorney general's office," Martin told

The Morning Call. "I am perfectly capable of handling it in an unbiased fashion." 

State police are working with Martin's office to determine if the officer was justified in the Saturday shooting of

Joseph Santos, 44, of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J. South Whitehall police Chief Glen Dorney said he has confidence in

their investigation. 

According to state law, the only way the attorney general's office could take over a case is if it's referred by a

district attorney. Even then, the attorney general's office would only get involved if it found a conflict of interest

that might keep the district attorney from being objective. 

The Philadelphia district attorney's office took that step last year when it referred the fatal shooting of David Jones

to the attorney general's office. Officer Ryan Pownall, who has since been let go from the department, confronted

Jones, who was on a dirt bike and armed. After Jones, 30, ditched the bike, dropped the gun and ran, Pownall shot

him three times in the back, according to published reports. The shooting was captured by a surveillance camera. 

Kelley Hodge, who was the city's interim district attorney at the time, referred the case to the state, citing a conflict

of interest. She declined to explain that conflict, according to WHYY. 

The name of the officer involved in the South Whitehall shooting has not been released. He responded about 5:45

p.m. to a report of a man interfering with traffic by jumping on cars and ripping out a car window. He can be heard

on police radio requesting backup to handle a "mental issue." 

New videos posted on Facebook Thursday show a man climbing on a South Whitehall police car, then splaying

himself across the hood and windshield as the driver keeps going. 

The man, who appears to be Santos, is captured in one video hanging onto a white car heading west on Hamilton

Boulevard. Another video shows him across the street, on the hood of the police car, which moves several feet

before stopping. 

The woman who posted it wrote, "I witnessed Joseph Santos act like a complete maniac and scare the lives of

those behind the wheel. I was one of the many people who contacted the authorities to report this man. I had not

come forward because it is not my intent for people to use me to demonize a man who was simply doing his job." 

Known as Nadia Elizabeth on Facebook, the woman said she was among those who called police upon seeing

Santos jumping on cars near Dorney Park. She has met with authorities, she said, and gave them her videos. 

Other videos show Santos hanging on the passenger side of the police car before the officer gets out. Santos does

not appear to be armed. The videos show Santos walking away from the stopped police car, then reversing course

as the officer shouts repeatedly for him to "get on the ground." Santos slightly raises then lowers a hand before the

officer fires five shots and Santos collapses to the ground. 

Santos' family has called the shooting "unjustifiable." 

Martin, at a news conference Saturday night, said the officer "encountered the gentleman and unfortunately had to

use his weapon and shot him." 

Pinsley, who is running for state Senate, said Martin's comment "has led many to believe that the outcome of the

investigation has already been predetermined." 

He added that Martin's daily interactions with police "could reasonably lead to a degree of bias in this

investigation." 

By asking the attorney general to step in, Pinsley said, Martin would "avoid all appearances of impropriety." 

Martin's decision isn't out of the ordinary. In police shootings in East Pittsburgh and Harrisburg this year, district

attorneys handled the investigations. 

The Allegheny County district attorney's office investigated the June 19 fatal shooting of 17-year-old Antwon Rose

II in East Pittsburgh, deciding to file a homicide charge against police officer Michael Rosfeld. According to

published reports, Rose was unarmed when he ran from police during a traffic stop. Like Santos' death, Rose's was

captured on video by a witness. 

officer. 

The Dauphin County district attorney's office has not completed its investigation of the Feb. 1 fatal shooting of

Albert Earl Morton Jr., 31, by Harrisburg police. Morton was driving when, police say, he started speeding toward an

In all three Pennsylvania cases, the victim was either black or Hispanic. That has been the case in a number of

other incidents across the country in recent years, prompting protests and allegations of police bias. 

At a Wednesday night vigil for Santos at Hamilton Boulevard and Lincoln Avenue, the 100 or so people who

gathered demanded action to keep police from turning to lethal force. 

"If he was white, would they have gone a different route?" Santos' brother, Luis, asked those assembled. 

"Yes," they shouted. 

Across Lincoln Avenue, a handful of counterprotesters stood in support of police. 

On Facebook Thursday, Nadia Elizabeth joined that chorus: "I don't wish death upon anyone but I sure as hell don't

wish for police officer to be demonized for doing his job," she wrote. 

swojcik@mcall.com 

610-778-2283 

CREDIT: By Sarah M. Wojcik 
 
 


 
A group of police supporters plan to rally Sunday near the spot where South Whitehall Township police officer

Jonathan Roselle fatally shot a man two weeks ago. 

At the same time, community activists in Allentown will hold an interfaith service to honor the man who died,

Joseph Santos of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., and call for an end to police brutality. 

The Facebook group Support Officer Jonathan Roselle and Our Men and Woman in Blue is calling for a peaceful

demonstration, not only for Roselle - charged with voluntary homicide in the July 28 shooting of 44-year-old Santos

- but on behalf of police generally. 

"I'm not a cop, I don't know what cops go through," said Corey Fatzinger, 33, of New Tripoli, who first floated the

rally idea on Facebook a couple of days ago. "But I can only imagine what they go through in today's society." 

The rally is scheduled for 2 p.m. on Hamilton Boulevard near the Comfort Inn Suites, where the shooting happened. 

The NAACP Allentown Branch said Thursday the planned rally for the police is poorly timed and should be

canceled. 

seek justice in the shooting. 

In a news release, the NAACP said the rally would be insensitive to the Santos family and provocative to those who

Make the Road PA and other activist groups that have protested the shooting plan a 2 p.m. event to remember

Santos and urge that Roselle be convicted. 

That event will be held at Resurrected Life Church, 144 N. Ninth St., Allentown. 

According to authorities, Santos had been jumping on moving vehicles along the 3700 block of Hamilton

Boulevard when Roselle arrived. 

the officer firing five shots. 

Several videos shared on Facebook moments after the shooting showed Santos walking away from the stopped

police car, then reversing course as Roselle shouts repeatedly for him to get on the ground. The video then shows

On Tuesday, Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin announced Roselle had been charged with voluntary

homicide. He said the officer was not justified in using deadly force, given that Santos was not armed or

committing a felony and that deadly force was not necessary to prevent death or secure an arrest. 

Roselle chose to use a gun instead of less lethal options at his disposal, notably a baton, pepper spray and Taser -

all of which were in working order, Martin said. 

Days after the shooting, about 100 people attended a vigil at Hamilton Boulevard and Lincoln Avenue to support

the family and demand action to keep police from turning to lethal force in such cases. 

The vigil also focused on the racial element of the case. Many protesters said the outcome would have been

different had the Latino Santos been white. 

Fatzinger said Sunday's rally "has nothing to do with race. I don't see color. I see good people and bad people and

everything in between. We don't want any racists out there, any white power stuff." 

The event is about recognizing that police, dedicated to protecting the public, are often forced to make split-

second decisions that could lead to tragedy, he said. 

"Whoever comes out to support the officer, I don't want any disrespect shown," Fatzinger said. "No looting or

rioting or property damage. Once people start doing that, our cause goes down the drain." 

A memorial of flowers, candles and other items grew up at the shooting scene in the days that followed. But even

some who generally back the police aren't sure this is an appropriate spot for a pro-police rally. 

"I think where you have it in such close proximity to where it happened, it sends a message that is at the very least

disrespectful," said Peter Ramstine of Catasauqua, adding that he is a strong supporter of law enforcement but

probably won't attend the rally. 

"I support the idea behind it, but it's in poor taste," said Ramstine, who saw the rally on Facebook and posted a

South Whitehall Chief Glen Dorney and Roselle's lawyer, Gavin Holihan, did not respond to a messages for

Reporters Carol Thompson and Frank Warner contributed to this story. 

Credit: By Daniel Patrick Sheehan - Of The Morning Call - Reporters Carol Thompson and Frank Warner contributed

Flowers mark the spot where Joseph Santos was fatally shot by a police officer July 28. A group supporting the

officer, Jonathan Roselle, will hold a rally there Sunday. 

comment. 

comment. 

to this story. 

Caption: Joseph Santos 

Morning Call File photo 
 
 

Department to change police chase policy following - Associated Press
State Wire: Rhode Island (RI) - December 11, 2018
December 11, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Rhode Island (RI)

PROVIDENCE, R.I. (AP) — Authorities in Rhode Island have recommended changes for police
chases in response to a fatal officer-involved shooting on Interstate 95 last year.

WPRI-T V reports T HAT  he Providence Police Department called for "training between agencies" to
address tactical and safety issues. T he department also found that communication between
officers was good but that talks broke down with Rhode Island Hospital personnel. Officials say the
hospital pulled resources because the incident wasn't clear.

Police say police began chasing Donald Morgan after he stole a police cruiser while he was being
transported to an arraignment. Morgan ditched the cruiser, and state police received a tip that he
may have climbed into a white pickup truck.

T roopers engaged in a high-speed pursuit with a white pickup and opened fire, killing 32-year-old
Joseph Santos .
Joseph Santos

___

Information from: WPRI-T V, http://www.wpri.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Ex-officer faces trial in deadlyshooting - Express-Times, The (Easton,
PA) - September 21, 2018 - page 001
September 21, 2018 | Express-Times, The (Easton, PA) | Rudy Miller For The Express-Times | Page 001

Former police officer Jonathan Roselle responded to what he thought was a carjacking, according
to his attorney.

T he ex-South Whitehall Township officer encountered Joseph Santos
body camera pointing to his own eyes, then pointing to the officer in what attorney Gavin Holihan
said Roselle interpreted as a threatening gesture.

Joseph Santos , who is seen on Roselle’s

T he video shown Thursday at the Lehigh County Courthouse showed a bloody Santos climb onto
the hood of Roselle’s police SUV, ignore Roselle’s commands to get off and ignore Roselle’s gun
pointed through the window at him.

When backup didn’t arrive quickly, Roselle got out of his car and shot Santos ending a “real and
genuine threat of harm,” Holihan said.

Lehigh County Judge Daniel T rexler disagreed. He ordered Roselle to stand trial on a charge of
voluntary manslaughter after Thursday’s preliminary hearing.

T he video shows an unarmed Santos approach Roselle on Route 222 in front of Dorney Park on
July 28. Through Roselle’s body camera you can see Santos walk slowly toward Roselle with his
hands visible and arms waving slowly by his sides.

Roselle is standing just outside the driver’s side door, repeatedly yelling at Santos to drop to the
ground. Santos keeps advancing toward the rear of the SUV and says “Don’t do it” to the officer
with the drawn gun. When Santos gets about 5 feet from the rear of the SUV, Roselle fires.

Santos took two bullets in his head and three in the torso, according to Lehigh County Detective
James Bruchak. A woman wearing a T -shirt with Santos’ picture on it sobbed during the graphic
footage shown in court.

Santos’ fiancée had said they were at Dorney Park that day when he left to buy cigarettes. T he 44-
year-old from Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey, had a history of drug abuse, but it didn’t justify
Roselle’s decision to kill him, she said.

A huge protest in support of Santos came a week after the shooting. T hat was followed by a pro-
police rally attended by more than 100 people in support of Roselle. T he 33-year-old Parryville,
Carbon County, man’s employment with the South Whitehall Police Department ended after the
shooting, authorities have said.

Lehigh County Assistant District Attorney Jeffery Dimmig said Roselle’s justifications for the

shooting don’t matter. For purposes of the preliminary hearing, he needed only to prove that
Roselle killed Santos and had a specific intent to do so.

Holihan argued that Roselle was motivated by Santos’ bizarre behavior. Santos had “unnatural
strength” and a high tolerance for pain that day, evidenced by the fact that he wore only socks and
stepped on broken glass, Holihan said. He seemed oblivious to the blood coming off his body,
Holihan said.

A toxicology report showed Santos had methadone, codeine, morphine, hydromorphine and a
metabolite of heroin in his system at that time, Bruchak said. It’s unclear whether they were all
ingested as part of one dose or ingested separately, Bruchak said.

Holihan said Roselle’s inaction may have allowed Santos to get control of the police SUV and its
potentially dangerous contents. Without action, Santos would have continued to put the lives of
the many bystanders in jeopardy, Holihan said.

Bystander video of the event has circulated on Facebook, but in court Thursday witnesses saw and
heard what Roselle saw and said by way of his body camera.

A hysterical woman is heard over his police radio asking for help due to a man trying to break her
car window. T hen Roselle drives toward the Comfort Suites hotel for what he tells dispatch is a
man with a “possible mental issue.”

You see a distressed Santos approach the SUV as Roselle barks, “Go that way. Get in front of my
vehicle right now.”

T hat’s where Santos makes the gesture with his fingers toward Roselle through the front driver’s
side window. He ignores commands to get in front of the car and climbs on the hood, smearing
blood from his arm on the windshield.

An anguished Santos appears to whimper as Roselle orders him repeatedly, “Get off my vehicle
right now.” Roselle draws his gun and points it toward Santos but Santos doesn’t stop.

T hen Roselle drives with Santos on the hood. He stops and tells dispatch, “T his guy’s covered in
blood and he’s, like, attacking my vehicle so I’m not getting out until one of you guys shows up.”

About a minute goes by and he gets out of the car anyway, ordering Santos onto the ground
repeatedly before shooting him.

When officer Kevin Smith arrives, Roselle tells him, “He wouldn’t stop, man. He just kept coming at
me. (Expletive). He’s done.”

Smith starts performing CPR and tells the stunned Roselle to put on his latex gloves and get an
AED, or automatic external defibrillator out of the SUV. Roselle tries to unlock the rear using the
wrong key. His hand shaking, he finds the correct key and unlocks the rear.

He fumbles with the device, apparently unsure whether it’s the one he wants, as a computerized

voice tells him, “Stay calm and follow these instructions.”

He manages to get pads onto Santos’ body as more police arrive.

T he machine tells an officer administering CPR, “press, press, press, press...” as another officer
takes Roselle aside.

Roselle tells the other officer, “He was coming at me. I told him to stop,” and then, “It’s not, it’s
not, I’m fine. I just, I’m concerned that I (expletive) up.”

Roselle is a U.S. Army veteran who served in Afghanistan and at the time of the shooting was a
major in the Pennsylvania Army National Guard.

He graduated from the Allentown Police Academy in December, then had 13 weeks of training, and
was on patrol by himself for less than five months prior to the incident.

Holihan debated with Dimmig for much of the hearing over whether Holihan could ask
Pennsylvania State Trooper Thomas Rummerfield to comment on his observations about the
video. Rummerfield led the investigation for state police.

Dimmig said Holihan couldn’t ask questions about whether Roselle’s conduct was reasonable
because that wasn’t relevant to the preliminary hearing, only whether Roselle acted with a specific
intent to kill Santos.

Lehigh County District Attorney James Martin was visibly irritated watching the attorneys argue
until he interjected.

“You’ve made your ruling,” he told Judge T rexler, adding that Holihan was inappropriately
continuing his line of questioning.

Holihan said it was inappropriate for Martin to speak since Dimmig was handling the case.

“I’m the district attorney of Lehigh County,” he forcefully asserted. “I’m not going to be stifled by
his interpretation of a rule I’ve never heard of.”

Rudy Miller, NJ Advance Media, rmiller @lehighvalleylive.com

Copyrig ht 2018 The Express-Times. All Rights Reserved.

 

 
South Whitehall Township has ended the employment of the rookie officer charged in the July 28 shooting death

of Joseph Santos along Hamilton Boulevard. 

Jonathan Roselle, 33, was still in the probationary period of his employment with the township when he shot

Santos, 44, of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., seven months after joining the police force. 

South Whitehall Township Manager Renee Bickel said township leaders have decided not to keep Roselle on the

force now that the probation period has ended, effective Thursday. Roselle's annual salary was $62,920. 

Roselle is charged with voluntary manslaughter and is scheduled for a preliminary hearing Sept. 20. He was

informed of the township's decision a few days ago, said his criminal defense attorney, Gavin Holihan. And he was

disappointed, Holihan said. 

"We think the decision by the district attorney's office obviously carried a lot of weight," he said. 

The shooting sparked protests and rallies in the township, mostly by those who saw the death of an unarmed

Latino man as the latest in a string of police shootings of unarmed men of color across the country. 

Before Labor Day, the local chapter of the NAACP issued a travel advisory, cautioning minority citizens in South

Whitehall to be on heightened alert over the holiday weekend. 

Eyewitness videos of the shooting show Santos jumping on the hood of Roselle's police car and pounding his fists

on it. He climbs off and starts walking away from Roselle, who was shouting for him to get on the ground. A

moment later, he turns around and walks toward the officer. Roselle can be heard ordering Santos to the ground,

but Santos continues to move forward. 

Witnesses told police Santos had been jumping on moving cars on Hamilton Bouldevard and had asked passers-by

for help. Roselle, an Army veteran of Afghanistan who had been patrolling alone for only five months, radioed for

help with a mental issue. 

"Don't do it," Santos said as he walked toward Roselle, according to Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin. 

Roselle then fired five gunshots. Santos was pronounced dead at the scene. 

Roselle was charged after a joint investigation of Martin's office and Pennsylvania State Police. 

Authorities found that Santos was not armed. Though he was behaving erratically, he did not demonstrate a

serious enough threat to warrant the use of deadly force, Martin said in announcing the charges last month. 

Roselle had working nonlethal tools he could have used instead, Martin said, including a Taser, pepper spray and a

baton. 

Holihan said Roselle made a judgment call when he shot Santos because he feared for his life. He has called the

shooting justified and said he will explore what effect Roselle's military training may have had on his actions. 

The shooting prompted a local examination of police tactics and the use of deadly force against unarmed men of

color - an issue that has sparked debates, protests and violence across the country. 

While Martin said he did not think race played a role in the South Whitehall shooting, advocacy groups have

disagreed. Rallies were held at the site - one in memory of Santos and one to support Roselle. An interfaith

memorial service for Santos had community leaders calling for change. 

Credit: By Sarah M. Wojcik - Of The Morning Call - swojcik@mcall.com;Twitter @Sarah_M_Wojcik;610-778-2283 

In this image taken from video, Joseph Santos approaches a South Whitehall Township police officer along

Hamilton Boulevard moments before he was fatally shot. The officer, who was later charged with voluntary

manslaughter, was responding to reports of a man jumping on passing cars. 

swojcik@mcall.com 

Twitter @Sarah_M_Wojcik 

610-778-2283 

Caption: Roselle 

Santos  

Contributed photo 
 
 


 
ALLENTOWN, Pa. (AP) - A police officer who fatally shot a man reported to have been hanging on or jumping on

moving cars near a Pennsylvania amusement park has been charged with voluntary manslaughter.  

Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin said Tuesday that 33-year-old South Whitehall Township officer

Jonathan Roselle had an "unreasonable" belief that his safety was endangered when he fired July 28 near Dorney

Park.  

Martin said 44-year-old Joseph Santos, of Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey, was approaching but displayed no

weapon or threatening posture. He said the officer, who he called "relatively inexperienced," could also have used

Defense attorneys said in a statement that Roselle, who is on paid leave, believes his actions were justified and

his baton, stun gun or pepper spray.  

appropriate given the circumstances.  

Credit: By ANNE D'INNOCENZIO, AP Retail Writer 
 
 


Tehama county - Two shootings by officers - Chico Enterprise-Record
(Chico, CA) - July 28, 2018 - page 3
July 28, 2018 | Chico Enterprise-Record (Chico, CA) | By Julie Zeeb jzeeb@redbluffdailynews.com @DN_Zeeb
on Twitter | Article | Page 3

RED BLUFF >> T ehama County officers have been found to be justified in shooting suspects June 6
in Red Bluff and July 7 in Los Molinos.

T he actions were determined to be legal and justified to protect lives and to prevent threat of injury
to the public, Assistant District Attorney Matt Rogers said in a press conference T hursday.

In the Red Bluff incident, the T ehama County Sheriff’s Office was contacted about 11:30 a.m. June
6 by the girlfriend of Abraham Flores
Abraham Flores , the armed man, reporting he was suicidal and armed with a
pistol and scoped rifle.

T he woman told law enforcement he had sent her a text message saying he was at the old
Diamond Mill property. When she said she was going to call the police, he said “I’m going to make
them kill me.”

His position was on a dirt mound more than 26 feet above law enforcement, Rogers said. T his
vantage point gave him an unobstructed view and put targets at risk at the nearby Shasta College
T ehama Campus, the Red Bluff Diversion Dam campground, traffic on Interstate 5 and Highway
99W, as well as approaching law enforcement.

Law enforcement staged about 200 yards away. T he girlfriend spent about 42 minutes on the
mound trying to convince him to let law enforcement help him. Flores refused and indicated he
wanted to be shot, Rogers said.

Flores taunted deputies, Rogers said. He showed a photo of Flores holding his arms out
perpendicular to his body with a firearm in each hand, taken about 10 seconds prior to being shot
by a sheriff’s sergeant who believed Flores was about to shoot.

Medics responded, but Flores was already dead, Rogers said. Additional weapons were recovered
from his vehicle.

In the July 7 incident at the Dollar General in Los Molinos, Rogers said the deputy’s actions not only
saved his life and the woman who was on a ride-along, but quite possibly other members of the
public.

Because of the suspect’s criminal history and possession of 12 ounces of cocaine, five pounds of
marijuana and THC vape capsules, it was “an understatement that he was up to no good,” Rogers
said.

T he incident began just before 7:30 p.m. when the deputy saw Jose Alfredo Barajas, 28, of
Stockton, switching a license plate in the Dollar General parking lot. T he deputy gathered probable
cause to search the vehicle, at which point Barajas became combative and a struggle ensued.
Barajas got in and locked his vehicle.

Believing a pursuit was about to begin, the deputy got into his vehicle. Barajas lowered his window
and fired a semi-automatic, large caliber rifle at the deputy. Barajas sped away, headed north on
Highway 99.

He was seen entering northbound Interstate 5 in Red Bluff where a California Highway Patrol
officer and two Red Bluff Police units attempted to overtake the vehicle. Barajas was a
considerable distance ahead of law enforcement when he lost control, crashing on the east side of
I-5 north of Jellys Ferry Road.

Barajas was found dead inside the vehicle. Based on significant damage to the rear of the sedan
and the lack of air bag deployment in a seat with a passenger sensor, authorities determined there
was no second person.

Barajas had two AK-47 rifles, two AR-15 rifles and two Glock pistols in his possession along with
multiple high capacity magazines.

“Barajas possessed over 1,000 rounds for his AK-47 rifles and over 1,000 rounds for his glock
pistols,” Rogers said. “Between rifle casings located at the shooting scene in Los Molinos and
inside Barajas’ vehicle, it was discovered that Barajas fired his AK-47 rifle 71 times.”

T he deputy’s vehicle was struck 27 times. T he deputy, who was hit three times, protected his
passenger prior to getting out and returning fire. Two of his wounds were graze wounds, but one
entered and exited his left shoulder.

T he woman was hit twice with graze wounds and the police dog in the rear cage of the vehicle was
not injured.

T he deputy fired his weapon 16 times with five rounds hitting Barajas and six hitting his vehicle. T he
self-inflicted shot to the head was the cause of death, Rogers said. T here was a suicide note found
in the vehicle at the crash scene.

Contact reporter Julie Zeeb at 530-737-5053.

(c) 2018 Chico Enterprise-Record. All rights reserved. Reproduced with the permission of Media NewsGroup, Inc. by NewsBank, Inc.

 

Law enforcement - Shooting victim’s name - Red Bluff Daily News (CA) -
June 8, 2018 - page 1
June 8, 2018 | Red Bluff Daily News (CA) | By Jake Hutchison jhutchison@redbluffdailynews.com | Article |
Page 1

RED BLUFF >> T he name of the man killed in an officer-involved shooting Wednesday off Diamond
Avenue was released as Abraham Noe Flores
issued Thursday by the T ehama County Sheriff’s Department.

Abraham Noe Flores , 34 of Los Molinos, according to a press release

Flores was shot and killed between Shasta College’s T ehama Campus and the former Diamond
Lumber Mill property after aiming a rifle at deputies.

A 911 call came into the dispatch center around 11:30 a.m. Wednesday from a woman saying her
boyfriend had a rifle and a handgun and was threatening to commit suicide.

Deputies responded to the incident near the campus and Flores asked them to shoot him. Flores
lifted his rifle, described as a hunting rifle with a scope, toward officers. A sheriff’s sergeant fired
two shots at Flores, both striking him.

Flores was declared dead at the scene.

Sheriff Dave Hencratt arrived at the scene and initiated an investigation incident, which will be
handled by Lt. Matt Hansen from the Red Bluff Police Department.

According to the release, Flores had previous contacts with law enforcement and a history of
mental health issues.

Prior to the shooting, the Crisis Negotiations Team from the sheriff’s office attempted to speak to
Flores, but his verbal attempts to get officers to shoot him continued.

A news release from Shasta College issued Wednesday evening said the school was notified at
11:42 a.m. of a gunman being spotted near the campus.

T he campus was locked down shortly after and followed standard procedure to keep students and
faculty inside before being evacuated with help of the sheriff’s department.

T he campus closed for the rest of Wednesday but reopened to normal operations T hursday.

No students, faculty or officers were harmed in the incident.

(c) 2018 Red Bluff Daily News. All rights reserved. Reproduced with the permission of Media NewsGroup, Inc. by NewsBank, Inc.

 
Press conference - Details released on two - Red Bluff Daily News (CA) -
July 27, 2018 - page 1
July 27, 2018 | Red Bluff Daily News (CA) | By Julie Zeeb jzeeb@redbluffdailynews.com @DN_Zeeb on Twitter
| Article | Page 1

RED BLUFF >> A press conference was held Thursday afternoon where T ehama County Assistant
District Attorney Matt Rogers released additional details about two officer-involved shooting
incidents, one of which was June 6 in Red Bluff and another July 7 in Los Molinos.

T he actions of law enforcement in both situations was determined to be legal and justified to
protect lives and to prevent threat of injury to the public, Rogers said.

Lives were at risk in the Red Bluff incident, in which a man with a handgun and scoped rifle was on a
dirt mound more than 26 feet above law enforcement, Rogers said. T his vantage point gave him
an unobstructed view and put targets at risk both at the nearby Shasta College T ehama Campus,
the Red Bluff Diversion Dam campground, traffic on Interstate 5 and 99W as well as approaching
law enforcement.

About 11:30a.m. the T ehama County Sheriff’s Office was contacted by the girlfriend of Abraham
Abraham
Flores , the armed man, reporting he was suicidal and armed with a pistol and scoped rifle.
Flores

T he woman told law enforcement he was at the old Diamond Mill property and sent a text
message letting her know where he was. When she said she was going to call the police, he said
“I’m going to make them kill me.”

T he incident had begun about 2 a.m. June 6 when Flores, armed with a hand gun, threatened to
commit suicide by cop if his girlfriend called the police, Rogers said.

Law enforcement staged about 200 yards away from Flores, whose girlfriend was on the mound
to the right of him trying to convince him to let law enforcement help him. Flores refused and
indicated he wanted to be shot, Rogers said.

Flores taunted deputies and Rogers showed a photo of Flores holding his arms out perpendicular
to his body with a firearm in each hand, taken about 10 seconds prior to being shot by a sheriff’s
sergeant who believed Flores was about to shoot. T he girlfriend had been removed from the
situation, after about 42 minutes of unsuccessful attempts to negotiate.

Medics responded immediately to render aid but Flores was already dead, Rogers said. Additional
weapons were recovered from Flores’ vehicle.

Flores had a lengthy criminal history dating back to 2005 with charges including trespassing,
resisting arrest, domestic violence and DUI, Rogers said.

After the July 7 incident at the Dollar General in Los Molinos, law enforcement was thankful the
deputy and his passenger survived, Rogers said. T he deputy’s actions not only saved his life and
the woman who was on a ride-along, but quite possibly other members of the public.

Because of the suspect’s criminal history and possession of 12 ounces of cocaine, five pounds of
marijuana and THC vape capsules, it was “an understatement that he was up to no good,” Rogers
said.

T he incident began just before 7:30 p.m. when the deputy saw Jose Alfredo Barajas, 28, of
Stockton, switching a license plate in the Dollar General parking lot.

T he deputy gathered probable cause to search the vehicle, at which point Barajas became
combative and a struggle ensued. Barajas got in and locked his vehicle.

Believing a pursuit was about to begin, the deputy got into his vehicle. Barajas lowered his window
and fired a semi-automatic, large caliber rifle at the deputy. Barajas sped away, headed north on
State Route 99E.

Barajas sped north on SR99E and was seen entering northbound Interstate 5 in Red Bluff where a
California Highway Patrol officer and two Red Bluff Police units attempted to overtake the vehicle.

Barajas was a considerable distance ahead of law enforcement when he lost control, crashing on
the east side of I-5 north of Jellys Ferry Road near the Red Bluff Rest Area.

A motorist saw the crash and, not knowing about the criminal activity, approached the vehicle to
help. T he witness reported hearing a single gunshot coming from inside the vehicle and seeing
another suspect flee.

Barajas was found dead inside the vehicle. Based on significant damage to the rear of the sedan
and the lack of air bag deployment in a seat with a passenger sensor, authorities determined there
was no second person.

Barajas had two AK-47 rifles, two AR-15 rifles and two Glock pistols in his possession along with
multiple high capacity magazines.

“Barajas possessed over 1,000 rounds for his AK-47 rifles and over 1,000 rounds for his glock
pistols,” Rogers said. “Between rifle casings located at the shooting scene in Los Molinos and
inside Barajas’ vehicle, it was discovered that Barajas fired his AK-47 rifle 71 times.”

T he deputy’s vehicle was struck 27 times. T he deputy, who was hit three times, protected his
passenger prior to getting out and returning fire. Two of his wounds were graze wounds, but one
entered and exited his left shoulder.

T he woman was hit twice with graze wounds and the police dog in the rear cage of the vehicle was
not injured.

T he deputy fired his weapon 16 times with five rounds hitting Barajas and six hitting his vehicle. T he

self-inflicted shot to the head was the cause of death, Rogers said. T here was a suicide note found
in the vehicle at the crash scene.

Contact reporter Julie Zeeb at 530-737-5053.

(c) 2018 Red Bluff Daily News. All rights reserved. Reproduced with the permission of Media NewsGroup, Inc. by NewsBank, Inc.

 
Man killed by sheriff's sergeant identified - Appeal-Democrat
(Marysville - Yuba City, CA) - June 7, 2018
June 7, 2018 | Appeal-Democrat (Marysville - Yuba City, CA) | Julie R. Johnson/ jjohnson@tcnpress.com

T he 34-year-old Los Molinos man shot and killed by a T ehama County sheriff's sergeant on
Abraham Noe Flores .
Wednesday in Red Bluff has been identified as Abraham Noe Flores

According to the sheriff's office, Flores had prior contacts with law enforcement and a history of
mental illness.

Flores was reportedly armed and suicidal when he was shot and killed not too far from Shasta
College T ehama Campus on Diamond Avenue in Red Bluff.

T he sheriff's office has not disclosed the name of the sergeant who shot Flores, but T ehama
County Asst. Sheriff Phil Johnston said he is a "veteran officer."

"Sheriff's dispatch received a 911 call around 11:28 today (Wednesday) from a female reporting
her boyfriend was armed with a rifle and a pistol and was suicidal in the area of 770 Diamond
Avenue, the old Diamond Mill platform," Johnston said.

He reported officers arrived shortly after and encountered a man armed with a rifle and pistol who
was saying he was going to shoot himself and was demanding officers shoot him.

It appears the woman who made the 911 call was nearby in a vehicle during this exchange.

As this area is just south of the college campus, the college was placed on lockdown.

At 11:55 a.m., the sheriff's department Crisis Negotiation Team arrived on scene and began
negotiating with the armed Los Molinos man.

"We negotiated with him for about 44 minutes," Johnston said. "During this time the subject
continuously tried to get officers to shoot him."

During this time, it appears the woman inside the vehicle at the scene was able leave the area of
danger and make it to a safe location.

"At 12:39 p.m. the male subject leveled a rifle, best described as a hunting rifle equipped with a
scope, at officers and took aim. A sheriff's sergeant fired two rounds at the subject. T he subject
immediately went down," Johnston said.

A medical team on standby during negotiations was dispatched to the downed man and declared
him dead at the scene, Johnston said.

T ehama County Sheriff Dave Hencratt, who was on scene, initiated the officer involved shooting
protocol to investigate the incident. T he investigation team has been headed up by Red Bluff Police
Lt. Matt Hansen.

Johnston said the Department of Justice has been contacted to assist with the investigation, as well
as a California Highway Patrol Multidisciplinary Accident Investigation T eam.

T he woman who made the 911 call about her boyfriend was transported the T ehama County
Sheriff's Office where she is being interviewed, Johnston added.

"I can say that she was not a hostage in this situation, but beyond that I cannot say what her role
was in this incident except to have been the one to make the 911 call," he said.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Appeal-Democrat, All Rights Reserved.

 
Details on deputy-involved shootings disclosed - Appeal-Democrat
(Marysville - Yuba City, CA) - August 1, 2018
August 1, 2018 | Appeal-Democrat (Marysville - Yuba City, CA) | Julie R. Johnson/ jjohnson@tcnpress.com

T ehama County Assistant District Attorney Matt Rogers shared details on July 26 about two
deputy sheriff-involved shootings that occurred this summer, which the D.A.'s office was assigned
to investigate as per county protocol.

T he information was shared at press conference during which Rogers, the county's elected
incoming district attorney, said that in both incidents the public was at risk.

"T hese deputies protected the lives of the public in their actions," he said.

T he Diamond Mill incident

T he first shooting incident, on June 6, involved Abraham Noe Flores
armed with a .22 caliber pistol and scoped rifle when his girlfriends called 9-1-1 from their location
at the Diamond Mill property on Diamond Avenue in Red Bluff around 11:28 a.m. stating Flores
was suicidal.

Abraham Noe Flores , 34, of Los Molinos, who was

Rogers said, "At 11:22 a.m. that morning Flores had sent his girlfriend a text message indicting
where he was. When she responded that she was going to call the police, he responded one
minute later saying, 'I'm going to make them kill me.'"

Police located Flores at the Diamond Mill property at 11:37 a.m. standing on an elevated mound of
dirt which gave him an unobstructed view of Shasta College extension campus, the diversion dam
campground, traffic on Highway 99W and Interstate 5.

"Flores was armed with a scoped rifle and a handgun and from that vantage point had the ability to
shoot people, vehicles and buildings within his line of sight," Rogers said.

Flores' girlfriend was standing not too far from Flores as police and T ehama County sheriff's
deputies stationed themselves about 200 yards away. She reportedly tried to convince Flores to let
police help him, but he responded he wanted to be shot and for her to leave.

"He could be heard becoming more agitated and telling deputies to shoot him," Rogers said.
"Standing with a firearm in each hand, he taunted deputies to shoot him saying, 'Shoot me, do it.'"

After trying to get Flores to give himself up for 42 minutes, deputies were able to safely remove
Flores' girlfriend from the site.

"At approximately 12:42 p.m. Flores was observed by law enforcement to be pointing his scoped
rifle at law enforcement officers" Rogers added. "Believing they were about to be shot by Flores, a

sheriff's office sergeant shot and killed Flores. Medics responded and rendered aid, but Flores was
deceased."

He said two additional rifles were recovered from Flores' vehicle – a scoped Remington 7mm and a
.270 rifle.

Los Molinos shooting

At the Dollar General parking lot in Los Molinos on July 6 around 7:29 p.m., a T ehama County
sheriff's deputy made approached a suspicious man, later identified as 28-year-old Alfredo Barajas
of Stockton, who appeared to be removing his license plate from his vehicle.

While questioning Barajas as to what he was doing, the deputy said Barajas gave inconsistent
information as to why he was in Los Molinos and why he was removing his license plate, Rogers
said.

As the deputy attempted to search Barajas' vehicle, a 2018 Honda Accord, the man reportedly
became combative and a struggle broke out between Barajas and the deputy.

Barajas was able to get back into his vehicle and locked the doors, Rogers said.

"T he deputy returned to his patrol vehicle believing Barajas was fleeing the area," he added. "As the
deputy entered his vehicle, he noticed the driver side window of Barajas' vehicle begin to lower. T he
deputy saw Barajas point an AK-47 type semi-automatic large caliber rifle at him and begin firing."

Rogers said the deputy, who had a female ride-along passenger, reached over and pushed the
woman down and place his body over hers.

"It was at this time that the deputy was shot three times from the gunfire, two bullets causing
grazing wounds and a third entering and exiting the deputy's shoulder," he added. "T he female
occupant inside the deputy's vehicle was struck two times with grazing wounds. T he deputy's
canine partner, which was in the rear cage of the vehicle was not injured."

T he deputy was able to exit his vehicle and return fire at Barajas with his department issued
handgun, Rogers reported.

During the exchange of gunfire, Barajas sped away traveling northbound on Highway 99E from
Los Molinos.

T he deputy reported shots fired to sheriff's dispatch at 7:35 p.m., six minutes after his initial
contact with Barajas.

Rogers said Barajas drove at a high speed into Red Bluff, where he entered the northbound on-
ramp of Interstate 5 with a California Highway Patrol officer and Red Bluff police attempting to
overtake the Honda.

"As Barajas drove northbound on Interstate 5 he lost control of his vehicle and crashed onto the

should of Interstate 5 north of Jelly's Ferry Road," he added. "As witnesses of the crash approached
Barajas' vehicle they heard a single gunshot come from inside Barajas' vehicle."

After the scene of the crash was secured by law enforcement, Barajas was located dead inside the
Honda.

Due to witness statements it was possible another person had fled from the Honda at the time of
the crash, but those statements were found to be unsubstantiated by physical evidence at the
crash and it was established Barajas was the only occupant of the Honda.

"During the subsequent investigation, it was discovered Barajas was in possession of two AK-47
rifles, two AR-15 rifles and two Glock pistols," Rogers said. "Barajas was in possession of multiple
high capacity magazines for all his weapons. T his included three, 75 round drum magazines for his
AK-47 rifles and one drum magazine for a Glock pistol. He possessed over 1,000 rounds for his
AK-47 rifles and over 1,000 rounds for the Glock."

Barajas was also reported to be in possession of approximately 11.9 ounces of cocaine, five
pounds of marijuana, and marijuana-related THC Vape capsules, and $2,000 in cash.

According to the report, Barajas fired his AK-47 rifle 71 times in the Dollar General parking lot,
striking the deputy's vehicle 27 times, penetrating multiple layers and entering the vehicle both in
the passenger area, the driver seat and the rear cage.

"T he deputy fired his weapon 16 times," Rogers said. Of those 16 rounds, five struck Barajas.

"Although it was determined Barajas died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to his head after he
crashed on Interstate 5," he said.

Barajas' criminal record included previous arrests for burglary, carrying a concealed weapon,
carrying a loaded weapon in public and driving under the influence.

"We have learned that Barajas had been gone from his home in Stockton for three weeks and had
not contact that we know of with friends or family during that time. We don't know where he had
come from or where he was going. We did find a suicide note in his vehicle," Rogers said.

He added, some the weapons located in Barajas vehicle were registered to him and some reported
stolen, and some of the weapons had been customized.

"It was obvious he was up to no good," Rogers said. "It is amazing that both the deputy and his
passenger survived and I commend the deputy for his actions."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Appeal-Democrat, All Rights Reserved.

 

Prosecutors ID man shot, killed by police - Associated Press State Wire:
New Jersey (NJ) - April 16, 2018
April 16, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: New Jersey (NJ)

MILLVILLE, N.J. (AP) — Authorities have released the name of a man who was shot and killed by
police who were pursuing him after another shooting that left a man dead and a woman critically
injured.

Cumberland County prosecutors said Monday that 55-year-old Jose Pietri
address was in Pennsville, was killed in Saturday's shooting in Millville. No officers were injured.

Jose Pietri, who last known

Pietri was being pursued by two Winslow officers and one from Millville following the double
shooting that occurred earlier Saturday in Winslow. Pietri's two children — ages 2 and 3 — were
also reported missing at the time, but were found safe later that day in Salem County.

Citing the ongoing investigation, authorities declined to provide further details about either
shooting or say how the children ended up in Salem County.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 
Suspect shot and killed by cops ID’d - Police - South Jersey Times (NJ) -
April 17, 2018 - page A1
April 17, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Matt Gray | Page A1

mILLVILLE

Authorities said Monday that Winslow Township police officers shot to death a 55-year-old
Pennsville Township man Saturday morning, but have not yet explained why the suspect was shot.

Jose Pietri
Jose Pietri was killed by officers around 9 a.m. in Millville, ending a bloody morning that began
miles away in Camden County.

T he carnage started early Saturday when police responded to a 911 call about a shooting at a
home on Woodhaven Way in Winslow.

Officers found Derek White, 47, of Salem, shot to death and a 26-year-old Winslow T ownship
woman seriously wounded.

Police identified Pietri as the suspected gunman and were told that his two kids, ages 2 and 3, were
missing. It’s unclear if one of the shooting victims was also a parent of the missing children.

Following the shooting, Winslow officers said they saw Pietri’s vehicle near the crime scene and
pursued him.

T he chase continued into Cumberland County, where Winslow’s officers were joined by a Millville
cop on Holly Berry Lane.

Officials have not described what led to the shooting, but Pietri was declared dead at a hospital a
short time later. Prosecutors said a firearm was recovered near his body.

Pietri’s kids were located Saturday afternoon in Salem County, authorities said. Investigators have
not said how they got there.

T he Cumberland County Prosecutor’s Office is investigating the fatal shooting by the officers.

Details about what led to the Winslow shootings have not been released.

T he unidentified Winslow woman shot Saturday remains hospitalized, authorities said.

Anyone with information about the Millville shooting investigation is asked to contact Cumberland
County Prosecutor’s Office Detective Keith Kanauss at 856-453-0486, ext. 13611.

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
Police-involved fatality raises questions - South Jersey Times (NJ) - July
17, 2018 - page A4
July 17, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Page A4

editorial

It’s happened again. A man was shot to death last weekend by police after a controversial
confrontation.

Actually, it happened twice. One time, it happened in Chicago, in an incident that garnered national
media attention.

T he other time, it happened in Vineland, in an incident that barely made the local T V news.

Why the broad scrutiny for one event and nearly no notoriety for the other? T hat seems to defy
explanation, except that Chicago is a big city with a reputation for severe street violence.

Yet, the Vineland fatality seems to be the one, on the face of it, that should generate more
questions.

In Chicago, police released body-cam video of the circumstances in which Harith Augutus, 37, lost
his life. Authorities hoped the video release would quell ongoing protests, since the footage
appears to show the man with a gun and an ammunition magazine in his waistband.

No such weapon-related assertion has been made officially about Saturday morning’s situation in
Vineland. T he deceased was later identified as Rashaun Washington, 37, of Bridgeton.

Witnesses say Washington, shirtless and holding a bottle of water, had been pacing around some
homes and near police cars that had responded. Described as agitated, the man supposedly said
something like, “I’m not leaving, you’re gonna have to kill me,” Three shots rang out, and
Washington was dead.

T he police-involved fatality is one of several recent ones in South Jersey. T he number would be
sparking more concern if they’d all occurred in Chicago or another large city.

In April, police shot and killed Jose Pietri
investigation out of Winslow T ownship. T he incident occurred in Millville, with Winslow police also
involved.

Jose Pietri, 55, of Pennsville, who was being pursued in a murder

Early this year, use of deadly force by police was declared justified in the case of Darryl Fuqua, 23,
who was killed Feb. 10, 2017, by a Bridgeton officer. A state review of a Cumberland County
investigation agreed that the officer acted in self-defense.

In early June, Deptford Township police killed shoplifting suspect LaShanda Anderson, 36, of
Philadelphia. Authorities say she tried to run over two officers with her SUV as she attempted to
flee a shopping center. T here is no police body-camera footage of this incident.

T he Anderson case, like the others, sparked protests from family members, but groups that are
routinely suspicious of police-involved shootings have been fairly quiet. Gloucester County NAACP
President Loretta Winters, after meeting with Gloucester County Prosecutor Charles Fiore, said she
had confidence that the ongoing investigation would be thorough.

And, returning to Vineland, police were ultimately cleared in the April 2016 shooting of Richard Baird
Jr., because he had allegedly tried to shoot at a city officer.

T he optics surrounding Saturday’s shooting seem different. They’re consistent with cases in which
someone with a mental illness or a psychological problem ends up dead after interacting with
police.

T here have been great advances in training and procedures when police believe they’re engaging
with someone who shows signs of being disturbed. Only a complete investigation can determine
whether Washington’s death was a tragically missed opportunity to use best practices.

Meanwhile, it would be better if all police-involved fatalities were automatically probed by state
authorities, not county prosecutors, whose conclusions always generate cries that investigators
are “too close” to the police departments and officers involved.

Last month alone, police across New Jersey shot and killed four people.

We’re still waiting for lawmakers to enact this long-proposed reform, as the number of incidents
grows.

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 
Millville cop tops in the use of force Force - South Jersey Times (NJ) -
December 28, 2018 - page 001
December 28, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Blake Nelson For South Jersey Times | Page 001

On a Sunday evening in February, Joseph Dixon threw a woman to the ground.

Dixon, an officer with the Millville Police Department, had just finished administering a sobriety test
on 50-year-old Audra Capps. She had been pulled over while driving home, city records show, and
Dixon told Capps she was under arrest. (She would later plead guilty to driving under the influence
and resisting arrest.)

Capps is 5 feet, 4 inches tall and weighs less than 100 pounds, and initially allowed Dixon to take her
hands. T hen she took a step away. Looking up at Dixon, who stood about a full head taller, she
began to back up, according to footage captured by a dashboard camera.

Dixon wrapped his left arm around her neck, lifted her off the ground, swung her over his hip and
slammed her into the asphalt.

T he pain was beyond anything Capps had felt, she said later in an interview. Worse than a broken
ankle and worse than childbirth.

“I can’t breathe,” she repeated at least four times, according to the video. “I need to go the
hospital … you just broke my rib.”

Medical reports later confirmed several broken ribs.

Dixon did not take her to the hospital, and he said on the use-of-force report he filed on the
incident that she was not injured. He reported that he simply restrained her.

Police force is sometimes necessary, often painful and rarely pretty.

But what neither Capps nor Dixon knew at that time — what nobody in the state of New Jersey
knew — is that during his first three-plus years as a police officer, Dixon reported using force more
often than any other cop in the state.

T he Force Report, a 16-month investigation by NJ Advance Media for T he Star-Ledger, points to
Dixon and a small number of other officers across the state as extreme outliers, those who use
force far more than their peers.

A high number of uses of force does not necessarily indicate wrongdoing, and numbers can
fluctuate based on location or assignment. But experts say outliers who used force at five, 10 or, in
Dixon’s case, more than 18 times the statewide average merit significant attention.

“T hat’s insane,” said Jon Shane, a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York and a
former Newark police officer, when asked about Dixon’s numbers. “It’s such a small place that
there’s no way he could have slipped through the cracks.

“It’s not possible that they didn’t notice the way he was behaving.”

Wayne Fisher, another former Newark cop and a police expert with Rutgers University’s Center on
Policing, said the amount of injured people Dixon reported was especially striking.

“It’s clear by the numbers that you just told me that this warrants greater scrutiny,” he said.

Dixon, 27, did not respond to requests for an interview. T he police chief in Millville, Jody Farabella,
called him “an example of a fine officer” who has never been the subject of a substantiated
excessive force complaint. Farabella declined to say how many excessive force complaints in total
had been filed against Dixon.

Of the 39 excessive force complaints filed against all Millville officers from 2012 through 2016, not
one was sustained, according to the Cumberland County Prosecutor’s Office.

“He’s in the worst areas,” Farabella said, referring to Dixon’s duty assignment, “so he’s gonna see
more than a regular patrolman.”

But no matter how you slice it, Dixon stands out in a city of under 30,000 people.

He used force 58 times during his first four years after completing his academy training, averaging
more than one incident a month. In contrast, the more than 17,000 New Jersey officers who
reported using force over a similar period averaged less than one incident a year.

He accounted for one-tenth of his entire department’s use of force, and none of the other 70-plus
officers came close to his share. T he Millville officer with the second-most uses of force, Jeffrey
Profitt, reported 36 incidents in five years, or 7.2 per year, roughly half as often as Dixon. Profitt
recently was indicted on charges of brutally beating five suspects and falsifying records. He has
pleaded not guilty.

Dixon also reported more injured subjects than all but one other officer in the state, despite the
fact that he was active for only four of the five years covered by T he Force Report. He also
reported being injured himself more than almost any other cop.

A LOCAL GUY

Dixon has roots in the city he patrols. He graduated from Millville Senior High School in 2009,
where he was classmates with a local baseball prodigy and future American League Most Valuable
Player, Mike T rout. In his senior year yearbook, Dixon wrote that he hoped to become a state
trooper.

NJ Advance Media reached out to more than a dozen of Dixon’s friends and classmates. Of the few
that responded, none was willing to speak on the record.

Dixon, who is white, joined a predominantly white department in the predominantly white city. A
photo of his swearing-in hangs near the police station entrance. T wenty-two at the time, he is tall
and slim, his right hand raised near a shaved head.

Millville packs a wide range of demographics into 42 square miles. T o the east of East Broad
Street, which cuts horizontally across the city, are four-bedroom homes on sprawling lawns. T o
the west, lots shrink, weeds burst from sidewalks and home values plummet to less than $50,000.

T he poorer part of the street is where Dixon and other officers have been called frequently, and
several residents described regular harassment from cops.

T he police often made little distinction between dangerous criminals and jaywalkers, said residents
who spoke with NJ Advance Media. Male officers performed invasive searches on female subjects,
they said, and complaints were not taken seriously by the department.

“I know Dixon, but he’s not the only one,” said Christina Hoober, standing on a Broad Street porch.

Last year, a passerby filmed a Millville officer repeatedly punching a man in the head. Although the
story was covered by local media, those reports did not identify the officer.

City records show it was Dixon.

He and another cop had stopped Barry Cottman, 34, for allegedly jaywalking. In an investigation
report, Dixon wrote that Cottman had walked diagonally across the street, “failing to use 90-
degree turns as required by state law.” When Cottman wouldn’t give his name, Dixon tried to place
him under arrest and said Cottman repeatedly pushed away.

Dixon wrestled Cottman to the ground, the investigation report said.

“I then delivered two closed fist strikes to the face of Cottman in order to gain compliance,” Dixon
wrote.

Cottman’s arm later hit Dixon’s leg, according to the report, so Dixon struck twice more as
Cottman kept his hands tucked under his body. Photos taken the next morning in an emergency
room showed Cottman’s right eye still swollen, and a line of stitches along his upper lip.

Cottman was ticketed for jaywalking and charged with disorderly conduct, resisting arrest,
aggravated assault on a police officer and two counts of obstruction. One of the obstruction
charges and the assault charge have been dismissed, court records show. T he rest are pending.

An attorney for Cottman, Justin Loughry, questioned whether jaywalking was a justification for such
a violent encounter.

“He’s saying that Barry is squirming underneath him,” Loughry said. “So does that give you an
excuse to start pummeling his head?”

Loughry said he was awaiting the outcome of the criminal trial before potentially filing an excessive
force lawsuit.

Cottman’s mother said she filed an excessive force complaint against Dixon, but that the
department told her he was justified in his actions.

In the case of Audra Capps, the woman Dixon threw to the ground, she recently notified the city
she plans to file a lawsuit.

T he city has faced others in recent years. In 2015, it agreed to pay $40,000 to settle claims that a
Millville officer pointed his gun at a 13-year-old boy after telling him not to ride a dirt bike in the
woods. In 2010, the city agreed to pay $100,000 to a woman who said she was beaten after being
stopped while riding her bicycle.

T he city did not admit wrongdoing in either case.

It’s difficult to assess how much scrutiny officers in any department receive because few, if any,
internal records are public.

Millville doesn’t use body cameras, and although a supervisor is supposed to review every incident
in which force is used, five of Dixon’s use-of-force forms were missing a supervisor signature. On
another, Dixon signed it himself. Farabella said he did not know why that would have happened.

RACIAL DISPARIT IES

Most people Dixon used force against were black or Hispanic, according to his forms. T he same is
true of the department as a whole. While black people account for about a fifth of the adjusted
population and made up almost half of all arrests, they accounted for more than half of all uses of
force.

Compare that to white people, who account for 63 percent of the population and made up more
than half of all arrests, but only accounted for a little more than a quarter of all uses of force.

Put another way, a black person arrested in Millville was more than twice as likely to face police
force than someone who was white.

Farabella said the department did not discriminate.

“T he hot spots, that’s where the officers focus,” Farabella said. “If the demographics are more
black or more white in those areas, I mean, the officer can’t pick and choose what call he goes on.”

Having to react to calls as they come in makes it difficult to build relationships around town, said
Rick Morales, a former Millville cop. T hat makes a hard job even harder.

“All they’re doing is just going from call to call to call,” Morales said. “T hat’s the problem.”

Residents and officials described a department that is young and short-staffed. At a neighborhood

watch meeting earlier this year, concerned citizens questioned officers about ways to make the
city safer. Sgt. Daniel Ayars was asked if more training would help recently hired cops.

“We’re such a young police department,” Ayars told the group, not speaking specifically about use
of force. “T hese guys have gotten training out of the police academy and they continue to get
training — they just don’t have the experience.”

Near the beginning of the Great Recession, Millville had 83 full-time officers. In 2016, the most
recent year available from the State Police, that number had slid to 74 even though the city’s
population had remained relatively constant.

“Years ago, there was a pool of applicants,” Farabella said. Now? “T here’s puddles of applicants.”

Shrinking budgets also made hiring difficult, he said.

Furthermore, even though officers are working in a small city, they’re still facing big problems. In
2017, Millville’s violent crime rate ranked among the top 25 highest in New Jersey, according to
statistics released by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Jonathan Merki, a local pastor who volunteers as a department chaplain, said he had seen a lot of
good work done by a lot of officers.

“By and large, I’m impressed,” Merki said.

HIGH HONORS

On a Saturday morning in April, Dixon slammed on his brakes in the middle of Holly Berry Lane.

He stepped outside his vehicle, gun drawn. In front of him was a stopped SUV that several cops
had chased south from Winslow T ownship. Inside was a man named Jose Pietri
suspicion of murdering a man and wounding the mother of his two young children.

Jose Pietri, wanted on

Dixon lifted his left hand off his gun to push a young girl fleeing the scene to safety. He lifted his
hand again to motion downward as Pietri stepped outside.

Pietri didn’t lay down but, based on video taken from a dashboard camera, faced forward and
appeared to lift at least one arm.

Dixon fired 14 shots in about six seconds. Pietri’s chest jerked, as if struck by a baseball bat, and
then he slid to the ground, his back briefly propped up by the driver-side door. Dixon kept firing as
asphalt burst upward around Pietri’s body.

On his use-of-force report, Dixon said that Pietri had fired at a police officer. Pietri was pronounced
dead later that day.

T he shooting initiated an automatic review overseen by the county prosecutor. T hat investigation
remains open.

Farabella nominated Dixon for a Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor. If he wins, Dixon likely will
meet the president of the United States.

NJ Advance Media reporters Disha Raychaudhuri, Rebecca Everett, Erin Petenko, Craig McCarthy
and Carla Astudillo contributed to this report.

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 


Chitwood: Deputy fighting for stun gun when he - Daytona Beach News-
Journal, The (FL) - August 5, 2018 - page A1
August 5, 2018 | Daytona Beach News-Journal, The (FL) | Seth Robbins seth.robbins@news-jrnl.com | Article |
Page A1

DELAND — Volusia County Sheriff Mike Chitwood said his deputy was justified in the shooting
death of a Seville man, after the man wrestled away the deputy's Taser and attempted to fire it at
him.

T he Sheriff's Office released a 12-minute body camera video early Saturday evening that shows
Emmanuel Alquisiras .
the volatile moments that led to the fatal shooting of 29-year-old Emmanuel Alquisiras

T he video begins with Deputy Brandon Watson arriving at 1600 N. U.S. 17 in response to a
domestic violence call made by a woman, believed to be Alquisiras' wife. Sitting on worn wooden
steps leading to the second floor of a house, Alquisiras and a friend refuse to let the deputy pass
or speak to the woman behind them.

When she screams, "He has hit me," in Spanish, Alquisiras lunges at the woman. Watson fires a
T aser shot into Alquisiras' back, and he falls to the ground, but he continues to fight, grabbing at
the Taser even as Watson fires more shots of electricity.

Watson pulls out his gun, warning that he is going to have to shoot. Several intense minutes follow,
with Alquisiras threatening that the deputy is going to have to kill him in front of his kids.

“You ain’t going to take me out of here, amigo,” he says. “I don’t care if you shoot me.”

Shortly after, Alquisiras grabs at the Taser again. T he video becomes shaky, and the sound of
Watson firing off five rounds is heard. T he woman and her children scream and begin to cry.

Chitwood said a targeting light in the video shows that Alquisiras had wrested away Watson’s
T aser, and was aiming to fire it. He said the stun gun can be shot twice.

“If he loses his firearm, he is dead and everyone else is dead,” Chitwood said. “We are trained that if
you lose your T aser, you have to transition to your firearm.”

Chitwood said his deputy did everything possible to avoid the shooting, including calling on
Alquisiras to stop resisting several times.

“T he deputy gave half a dozen warnings and explained what was going to happen,” Chitwood said.
“If he lets the woman leave the house, the situation is over. If he lets the deputy cuff him, the
situation is over.”

T he Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating the shooting, which is standard, and

Watson, who was hired in 2015, has been placed on administrative leave.

Friday’s incident was the seventh deputy-related shooting in Volusia since Chitwood became sheriff
in January 2017. Chitwood, who has mandated training for his deputies on how to avoid the use of
deadly force, said the shooting was the first of 2018, with the last one occurring more than a year
ago.

Chitwood said Alquisiras had been previously arrested for domestic violence in 2008 and driving
under the influence in 2004. T here was also a recent incident where he was intoxicated and refused
to leave his children’s daycare.

“It’s sad, and it’s heartbreaking that this happened,” Chitwood said. “But on the same token, we
have to defend ourselves. And officers and deputies around the country lose their lives in domestic
violence calls.”

When asked why the deputy was alone, Chitwood said it was because he has only one unit assigned
to Seville.

In Northwest Volusia County, Seville and neighboring Pierson are remote and rural towns. T here,
the fences of horse ranches and the dark canopies of fern farms run alongside U.S. 17, a two-lane
road that slices through the greenery. Pancho’s Grocery sits at an intersection, just a short walk
from the stained cinder-block house where the shooting occurred.

Inside the store Saturday morning, there was much talk about the man’s children, now left without
a father. He and his wife had four daughters, ages 7, 5, 4 and 1, said Andres Carbajal. Alquisiras
worked as a roofer and was the family’s sole provider, he said.

“Why did they need to kill him?” Carbajal asked in Spanish. “How did the police help this family?”

Carbajal knew the family because they attended the same nearby church. He questioned if
shooting Alquisiras was the only option. He was interested in seeing the deputy’s body camera
video, which hadn’t been released to media yet.

“T here needs to be justice,” he said.

Carbajal and others said they worried what the shooting could mean for the community, largely
made up of Mexicans and other Latinos, many of whom are already fearful of authorities. When
Chitwood took office, he reached out to the migrant farmworkers in these towns, in an effort to
gain their trust.

“Now, when there is a domestic violence, there is going to be a worry that the police are going to
come,” Carbajal said. “T hey are not going to call.”

Copyrig ht 2018, Daytona Beach News-Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 
‘I didn't want to do it!' Video shows deputy - Miami Herald, The (FL) -
August 6, 2018
August 6, 2018 | Miami Herald, The (FL) | Madeleine Marr, Miami Herald

Newly released body cam footage documents the frightening moments leading up to a deputy
fatally shooting a man in Central Florida.

According to a police report from the Volusia County Sheriff's Office, Deputy Brandon Watson
responded to a domestic violence call at a Seville home a little after 7:30 p.m. Friday.

T he video, released by the sheriff's office and carrying a graphic content warning, first shows the
deputy asking two men sitting on the steps at the entrance about a call he received about a man
and a woman fighting.

T he men seem calm but refuse to answer questions about what's going on. A woman carrying a
child comes out of the house and hands the deputy a phone. T he woman on the line says, "I kicked
him out of the house. He has a knife."

Watson hands the phone back to the woman on the landing who says something in Spanish about
him "beating me up."

Suddenly, a shirtless man on the steps lunges at the woman with the child.

"Don't you f---ing move!" yells the deputy, then T ases the man in the back and tells him to get on
the ground.

T he suspect falls down, screaming in pain and groaning.

"Chill!" yells the deputy. "Stop!"

Emmanuel Alquisiras .
T he deputy zaps the man again. He was later identified as Emmanuel Alquisiras

In the video, the deputy yells, "Stop resisting and put your hands behind your back. Get your hands
behind your back!"

"I don't care if you shoot me!"

"T hat's the last thing I want to do!"

"I'm not leaving. You're going to have to kill me," Alquisiras says.

T hat's when the suspect tries to grab the T aser.

"Let go of the f--ing Taser now! Put your hands behind your back! I ain't f---ing around no more!"
screams Watson, who instructs the children to get inside.

"You don't know who you're f--ing with, amigo," the suspect says. "Why are you doing this in front
of my kids!?"

T he suspect and deputy struggle and the Taser goes off again, then five gunshots are fired.

"Stop!" yells the deputy. "Stay down!"

dep

Silence. T hen the woman and children are heard hysterically crying.

According to the Daytona Beach News Journal, the couple had four daughters, ages 7, 5, 4 and 1,
and Alquisiras, a roofer, was the family's sole provider.

T he unidentified man on the steps who was wearing the shirt says, "T hat's messed up, man!"

"I didn't want to!" yells the deputy. "He grabbed my T aser, man. I'm freaking out right now, too."

You hear the deputy's heavy breathing. "Goddammit!"

"Why, man? Why," yells the other man.

"I didn't want to do it! He forced my hand! I didn't want to do this!" answers Watson.

When paramedics arrived, Alquisiras was pronounced dead, according to the Volusia sheriff's
office.

Volusia County Sheriff Mike Chitwood said later on T witter: "I'm sorry for the pain the family is
feeling but I'm also thanking God that our deputy is OK. T here were several different potentially
tragic outcomes to this call & there's no doubt in my mind that the deputy's intervention spared
the female victim from further domestic violence."

When members of the community asked the sheriff on social media why the deputy had no
backup, he explained why on Facebook:

"Seville is a rural unincorporated community with a Census population of less than 700 people. T he
reality has always been that fewer deputies are available to immediately respond to a call in Seville
than in Deltona, for example, where population density and call volume are high. T he video of
Friday's incident is a clear illustration of that reality."

T he post adds that the Florida Department of Law Enforcement is conducting an investigation, and
the deputy is on administrative leave, which is "standard."

Chitwood says he stands by the deputy "100 percent."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Miami Herald

 
DELAND — Volusia County Sheriff Mike Chitwood - Daytona Beach
News-Journal, The (FL) - August 5, 2018 - page A8
August 5, 2018 | Daytona Beach News-Journal, The (FL) | Seth Robbins seth.robbins@news-jrnl.com | Article |
Page A8

DELAND — Volusia County Sheriff Mike Chitwood said his deputy was justified in the shooting
death of a Seville man, after the man wrestled away the deputy's Taser and attempted to fire it at
him.

T he Sheriff's Office released a 12-minute body camera video early Saturday evening that shows
Emmanuel Alquisiras .
the volatile moments that led to the fatal shooting of 29-year-old Emmanuel Alquisiras

T he video begins with Deputy Brandon Watson arriving at 1600 N. U.S. 17 in response to a
domestic violence call made by a woman, believed to be Alquisiras' wife. Sitting on worn wooden
steps leading to the second floor of a house, Alquisiras and a friend refuse to let the deputy pass
or speak to the woman behind them.

When she screams, "He has hit me," in Spanish, Alquisiras lunges at the woman. Watson fires a
T aser shot into Alquisiras' back, and he falls to the ground, but he continues to fight, grabbing at
the Taser even as Watson fires more shots of electricity.

Watson pulls out his gun, warning that he is going to have to shoot. Several intense minutes follow,
with Alquisiras threatening that the deputy is going to have to kill him in front of his kids.

“You ain’t going to take me out of here, amigo,” he says. “I don’t care if you shoot me.”

Shortly after, Alquisiras grabs at the Taser again. T he video becomes shaky, and the sound of
Watson firing off five rounds is heard. T he woman and her children scream and begin to cry.

Chitwood said a targeting light in the video shows that Alquisiras had wrested away Watson’s
T aser, and was aiming to fire it. He said the stun gun can be shot twice.

“If he loses his firearm, he is dead and everyone else is dead,” Chitwood said. “We are trained that if
you lose your T aser, you have to transition to your firearm.”

Chitwood said his deputy did everything possible to avoid the shooting, including calling on
Alquisiras to stop resisting several times.

“T he deputy gave half a dozen warnings and explained what was going to happen,” Chitwood said.
“If he lets the woman leave the house, the situation is over. If he lets the deputy cuff him, the
situation is over.”

T he Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating the shooting, which is standard, and

Watson, who was hired in 2015, has been placed on administrative leave.

Friday’s incident was the seventh deputy-related shooting in Volusia since Chitwood became sheriff
in January 2017. Chitwood, who has mandated training for his deputies on how to avoid the use of
deadly force, said the shooting was the first of 2018, with the last one occurring more than a year
ago.

Chitwood said Alquisiras had been previously arrested for domestic violence in 2008 and driving
under the influence in 2004. T here was also a recent incident where he was intoxicated and refused
to leave his children’s daycare.

“It’s sad, and it’s heartbreaking that this happened,” Chitwood said. “But on the same token, we
have to defend ourselves. And officers and deputies around the country lose their lives in domestic
violence calls.”

When asked why the deputy was alone, Chitwood said it was because he has only one unit assigned
to Seville.

In Northwest Volusia County, Seville and neighboring Pierson are remote and rural towns. T here,
the fences of horse ranches and the dark canopies of fern farms run alongside U.S. 17, a two-lane
road that slices through the greenery. Pancho’s Grocery sits at an intersection, just a short walk
from the stained cinder-block house where the shooting occurred.

Inside the store Saturday morning, there was much talk about the man’s children, now left without
a father. He and his wife had four daughters, ages 7, 5, 4 and 1, said Andres Carbajal. Alquisiras
worked as a roofer and was the family’s sole provider, he said.

“Why did they need to kill him?” Carbajal asked in Spanish. “How did the police help this family?”

Carbajal knew the family because they attended the same nearby church. He questioned if
shooting Alquisiras was the only option. He was interested in seeing the deputy’s body camera
video, which hadn’t been released to media yet.

“T here needs to be justice,” he said.

Carbajal and others said they worried what the shooting could mean for the community, largely
made up of Mexicans and other Latinos, many of whom are already fearful of authorities. When
Chitwood took office, he reached out to the migrant farmworkers in these towns, in an effort to
gain their trust.

“Now, when there is a domestic violence, there is going to be a worry that the police are going to
come,” Carbajal said. “T hey are not going to call.”

Copyrig ht 2018, Daytona Beach News-Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 
Backup 25 miles away in fatal shooting - Daytona Beach News-Journal,
The (FL) - August 7, 2018 - page C1
August 7, 2018 | Daytona Beach News-Journal, The (FL) | Patricio G. Balona patricio.balona@news-jrnl.com |
Article | Page C1

A Volusia County sheriff’s deputy who shot and killed a Seville man while responding alone to a
domestic violence incident over the weekend had backup, but it was 25 miles away, an official said
Monday.

So the Sheriff’s Office is looking for ways to increase the number of deputies in the rural northwest
area of Volusia County or find some form of assistance from nearby counties, said sheriff’s
spokesman Andrew Gant.

“Many of you have asked why a backup deputy did not arrive on scene during the 12 minutes of
body-camera video we provided,” Gant said.

It also took 16 minutes for the first-responding deputy, Brandon Watson, to be sent on the call
because a Volusia County sheriff’s dispatcher had difficulty finding the location of the house on her
computer. T he dispatcher initially contacted Putnam County to see if Seville and the address was in
their jurisdiction, according to 9-1-1 recordings.

At least two Volusia County sheriff’s deputies are dispatched to all priority calls, including domestic
violence-related calls, Gant said.

“A second deputy was dispatched to Friday’s call, too,” Gant said. “However, that deputy was
traveling from DeLand to the remote incident location in Seville, a distance of about 25 miles.”

As backup deputies rushed to help Watson, who was sent on a well-being check at 1600 N. U.S. 17,
Watson found himself the only deputy there with an uncooperative suspect. While trying to figure
out what was happening at the home, a confrontation between Watson and the suspect quickly
escalated, ending with the deputy shooting 29-year-old Emmanuel Alquisiras
Emmanuel Alquisiras , said Sheriff Mike
Chitwood.

Watson was responding to a report of an ongoing domestic disturbance between Alquisiras and
his wife, Elianet Escobar, around 7:39 p.m. Friday.

When Escobar, 24, came out and spoke to the deputy, her husband grabbed her and they started
to struggle at the top of the stairs, investigators said.

Watson shot Alquisiras with a Taser to get him away from the woman but he continued to
struggle with the deputy for several minutes. During the struggle, Alquisiras grabbed the deputy’s
T aser, and the Taser was discharged, investigators said.

Chitwood said in the body-worn camera video at the time of the final struggle, a targeting light
from the Taser appears on a porch rail. It appeared similar to the beam of a flashlight.

T he sheriff said that indicates Alquisiras had control of Watson’s Taser and was ready to fire. T he
deputy then fired five shots from his pistol, hitting Alquisiras four times.

Everything was over by the time backup deputies arrived.

Gant said Seville is a rural unincorporated community with a population of less than 700. Known by
deputies as Zone 21, it’s in the far northwest corner of Volusia County.

“T he geographic area of Zone 21 is extremely large, but the law enforcement call volume there is
extremely low compared to other areas of Volusia County,” Gant said.

“T he reality has always been that fewer deputies are available to immediately respond to a call in
Seville than in Deltona, for example, where population density and call volume are high.” Gant said.

“T he video of Friday’s incident is a clear illustration of that reality.”

In Friday’s case, deputies responded on a well-being check and had third-hand information from
the person who called for help that the woman was being battered by the suspect, Gant said.

T he person who made the call was the Domestic Abuse Council’s victim advocate who was
working to protect Escobar.

She said Escobar had come for help two days before the shooting and she had bruises all over her
body.

“I have a participant who is danger right now,” the advocate said to the dispatcher. “I need that
man out of the house.”

T he advocate said Alquisiras has physically beaten Escobar, even knocking her out with a punch in
one instance, she said in the emergency call.

“We believe that had the deputy not approached the residence to check on her — and had she
turned out to be injured or worse — then we would be facing a different set of questions today,”
Gant said.

T he incident is under review by the Sheriff’s Office.

“As in all cases, and especially in deputy-involved shootings, the Sheriff’s Office is examining every
factor that played a role in Friday’s incident,” Gant said.

“T he agency is taking steps to increase the number of deputies available to respond in a shorter
amount of time in Zone 21, to request and receive aid from neighboring counties when needed
and to communicate the status and location of backup units to the initial unit on scene.”

Copyrig ht 2018, Daytona Beach News-Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 
Sheriff Mike Chitwood said all the Spanish he can - Daytona Beach
News-Journal, The (FL) - March 2, 2019 - page A11
March 2, 2019 | Daytona Beach News-Journal, The (FL) | Patricio G. Balona patricio.balona@news-jrnl.com |
Article | Page A11

Sheriff Mike Chitwood said all the Spanish he can speak is “buenas tardes” and “muchas gracias”
but that’s enough of an ice breaker to bring his agency closer with Northwest Volusia’s Mexican
community, which recognized the sheriff for improving relations.

“I was humbled and honored to receive the award and I don’t know why they chose me,” Chitwood
said this week, holding his certificate of appreciation for his contributions to the community that
includes migrants and farm workers.

Marcos Crisanto, coordinator of the Farmworker Association of Florida’s office in Pierson, is quick
to answer.

“It’s because of his involvement with the community,” Crisanto said. “He has been very visible in our
community since he became sheriff and people are grateful of his support.”

In the two years that Chitwood has been sheriff, Crisanto said he has received positive feedback
from residents about his deputies.

T here are fewer complaints of profiling by deputies, who used to park their patrol cars where
undocumented workers are known to be, then pull them over, Crisanto said, and not always for a
good reason. Deputies are now stopping people for traffic violations and unsafe vehicles, he said.

In March 2017, shortly after he took over as sheriff, Chitwood met with the migrant community to
outline his policing plan.

At the San Jose Catholic Mission in Pierson, Chitwood spoke then to more than 200 residents of the
migrant worker community gathered at the sanctuary of the church. After listening to their stories
and experiences with deputies before he took office, he promised fairness.

Chitwood reassured the Mexican community then that his deputies were not allowed to participate
in immigration roundups or profiling, and they will protect victims and witnesses of crime
regardless of their immigration status.

Chitwood also made it clear then that the law will be applied equally and fairly, as it is done with
American citizens, on violent undocumented law-breakers. T hat promise elicited claps of approval
from the migrants.

Nearly two years later, those guarantees are being seen in the community and that’s why
Chitwood was recognized for his positive work, Crisanto said, offering some examples.

Chitwood has helped with Christmas toy giveaways to children in the Mexican community and has
also contributed school supplies and backpacks to the Farmworker Association’s back-to-school
programs, Crisanto said.

Community members indeed feel they are being treated more fairly, the farm worker advocate
said.

Deputy Hector Rodriguez, a DeLeon Springs native and a three-year patrol deputy who works the
Northwest Volusia community, said that Chitwood’s presence in the community does bring a level
of comfort to the residents.

“I’ve seen that Sheriff Chitwood is more connected to the community,” Rodriguez said, adding that
Chitwood has also been able to do that with other Volusia communities.

Rodriguez said he believes that Chitwood’s leadership style and his willingness to show up when the
community needs issues addressed is what has made the Mexican community more receptive of
the Sheriff’s Office.

“You know, if the top leader of the agency goes out on patrol or meetings and sits and eats tacos
with them, it makes a difference to the community,” Rodriguez said. “Just showing up like that
makes a difference.”

‘Palpable fear’

T he news is good to Chitwood, who said he has always reminded his deputies working in
Northwest Volusia, that they are in a community “where there is palpable fear of law
enforcement.”

“I know that I have a great group of deputies that work in the Pierson and Seville area,” he said.
“And all I preach to them is be fair. Enforce the law fairly.”

But Chitwood reiterated that if a person breaks the law or commits a crime, his or her immigration
status will not matter: “We are coming to get you.”

Chitwood’s approach to policing in the migrant community has made the community less fearful
and more understanding of the work deputies do, Crisanto said.

“He has come to church with us. He has eaten with us,” Crisanto said. “He is not afraid of being
criticized and is willing to listen to people, even if they have very difficult questions.”

For instance, Chitwood did not avoid being questioned when the community demanded answers
Emmanuel Alquisiras  during a domestic violence
after deputy Brandon Watson shot and killed Emmanuel Alquisiras
call in Seville on Aug. 3, Crisanto said.

T here was suspicion in the community that Watson’s actions were extreme with Alquisiras because
he was Mexican. Chitwood accepted an invitation to Mass at the San Jose Catholic Mission and

after the service spoke to more than 200 people who had stinging questions and criticisms,
Crisanto said.

“And he did answer all the questions,” Crisanto said. “Not 100 percent of the people were satisfied
with his answers but the majority understood the situation better.”

Chitwood said Crisanto helped greatly in easing fears after the shooting because he gave him an
opportunity to speak with the people. T he meeting at the church allowed people to ask any
questions that they wanted to ask and a lot of misinformation was cleared up, Chitwood said.

Some of the questions focused on why the deputy had to shoot Alquisiras, who was on the ground
unarmed. Others asked why he wasn’t shot in the hand instead of the body and why the deputy’s
backup was so far away.

Alquisiras was shot seven times, an investigation shows.

“I think we had the opportunity to say, ‘You don’t have to agree with this but we are going to at
least tell you what happened and you can form your own opinion,’ “ Chitwood said of the meeting.
“I think the folks understood that maybe things could have been handled a little differently but they
saw why.”

Following the shooting incident in Seville, Chitwood said he has taken steps to ease the
community’s fears and has ordered that a second deputy must be assigned each shift to the rural
areas of Northwest Volusia.

Deputies assigned to Seville or Pierson get notifications from dispatch as to how far away (in
miles) from back up they are,” Chitwood said. “Also, I put in an order that two deputies must be in
the area at all times.”

If for some reason someone leaves the area, a sergeant or another deputy must fill the slot, the
sheriff said.

Chitwood said his agency will continue to work to be part of the communities it covers.

“T here is crime there, there is domestic violence issues, there are drug issues,” Chitwood said. “We
need to know that and if we alienate the community they are not going to tell us who is bringing in
the drugs or who doesn’t belong in the community.”

Copyrig ht 2019, Daytona Beach News-Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 
Volusia officer shot Seville man - Daytona Beach News-Journal, The (FL)
- December 26, 2018 - page C5
December 26, 2018 | Daytona Beach News-Journal, The (FL) | Frank Fernandez frank.fernandez@news-
jrnl.com | Article | Page C5

Volusia officer shot Seville man 7 times during Aug. 3 encounter

Volusia County sheriff's deputy Brandon Watson told investigators that before he shot and killed a
drunk husband who had threatened his wife, the deputy felt vulnerable and isolated as he
confronted two men on a staircase, according to a newly released report of the incident.

Watson was outside of a Seville home investigating a domestic disturbance call Aug. 3 when he
shot Emmanuel Alquisiras
shooting of one of those men.

Emmanuel Alquisiras  seven times, according to the documents which clear him in the fatal

After a tense confrontation and struggle which lasted several minutes Watson shot and killed
Alquisiras. T he Florida Department of Law Enforcement investigated and forwarded its report to
the State Attorney’s Office, which found no further action was warranted.

Watson had already shot his Taser once, hitting Alquisiras in the back but the man continued
resisting despite the stun from the electrical charge, the report states. Watson said he pressed the
T aser directly into Alquisaras’ chest and stunned him.

“He grabbed the T aser. It still locked him up but he squeezed and rolled and it ripped the Taser out
of my hand when he went over,” Watson said.

Watson said he shoved off Alquisiras and jumped back while drawing his handgun.

“I seen him coming around with the Taser aiming it toward me. As I seen him coming around I
heard the Taser go off as he shot the second cartridge and when he did that, that’s when I shot
him probably four to five times,” Watson said.

T he report included autopsy results which found that the 29-year-old Alquisiras had been shot
twice in the right arm and four times in the torso and once in the abdomen. T he autopsy also
found that Alquisiras had a blood alcohol content of 0.19, which is more than twice 0.08 limit at
which a person is considered legally intoxicated to operate a vehicle. It also found cocaine in his
system.

Alquisiras had previous arrests for domestic violence in 2008 and driving under the influence in
2004. T here had also been an incident not too long before the shooting where he was intoxicated
and refused to leave his children’s daycare.

Elianet Escobar, who was previously identified as Alquisiras’ wife, had called the abuse hotline

because Alquisiras had threatened her with a knife and had beaten her the day before. Escobar,
who does not speak English, said through an interpreter that Alquisiras had grabbed the T aser
from Watson and refused to let it go before he was shot.

In a subsequent interview, Escobar said that Alquisiras was drunk and had a knife on him but did not
threaten her. But she was afraid he would harm her and the children so she called 9-1-1 at about 6
p.m. Aug. 3. She repeated that Alquisiras had taken the Taser from the deputy. But later in the
interview she said that Alquisiras had grabbed the Taser but had not taken it from the deputy.

Watson, who had been with the Sheriff’s Office for 3½ years at the time, was working overtime
when he responded to the domestic violence call at 1600 N. U.S. 17 in Seville.

When he arrived he found Alquisiras and his friend Jose Aguirre sitting on the steps of the wooden
stairway. T he deputy’s backup was on his way but about 25 miles away in DeLand.

Watson was speaking to Alquisiras who was telling the deputy that he didn’t belong there and to go
away, the report states. Watson said he saw children peeking out the window but when he asked
the men who else was in the house they said no one.

As the deputy spoke to the men a woman emerged from the apartment and handed him a
cellphone. On the phone, another woman confirmed that this was the right house where a man
had threatened a woman.

Watson told investigators that at that point he decided to arrest Alquisiras and take him to jail.

But when he handed the phone back to the woman, Alquisiras grabbed her and started shaking her
and throwing her around, Watson told investigators.

“My first thought was is he going to toss her off the edge, is he going to try and toss her back
inside?” Watson said.

Watson contemplated what to do.

“My first thought was punch this guy in the back of the head, try to knock him out,” Watson said.
“T hen with his friend sitting there I don’t want to get into a physical fight, have his friend jump in,
two on one and I still don’t know where my backup is at this point. I knew he was on his way but I
was pretty far out there.”

Instead Watson drew his Taser and fired two electric probes into the back of the shirtless
Alquisiras.

Watson said it was a good hit by the probes and Alquisiras went down. He said he told Alquisiras’
friend not to move. T hen Watson got on top of Alquisiras, using his knee and one hand to pin one
of Alquisiras’ hands. He kept trying to handcuff Alquisiras while ordering Aguirre, who had gone
down the stairs, not to come back up.

“I was trying to stay pretty calm with my demeanor, my tone of voice,” Watson said, “because the

last thing I wanted was for me to start screaming through the roof, getting all worked up and then
have the second male subject there, him escalate and join the fight. T hat was the last thing I
wanted at that point.”

Watson recalled Alquisiras telling him the deputy would have to kill him.

Watson tried stunning him again with the Taser but the connection was not good. T hat’s when
Watson tried to press the Taser directly into Alquisiras’ chest. And that’s when Watson said
Alquisiras stripped the Taser away from him and shot it. T he deputy then opened fire with his .40-
caliber pistol.

Alquisiras' friend, Aguirre, said he had been walking down the stairs and away from his friend and
the deputy when he heard the gunshots. Aguirre said he turned and saw Alquisiras had been shot.

Aguirre said that Watson told him that Alquisiras had grabbed his T aser. Later in the interview,
Aguirre indicated that he "did not really hear" but Watson said Alquisiras was reaching for his T aser.

Watson said Aguirre was upset and came back up the stairs. Watson holstered his gun and met
Aguirre part of the way up and told him to stay away.

After talking to Aguirre, a man drove up, jumped out of the car and started yelling and screaming
asking why Watson had shot the man.

On the stairway, Watson decided to move.

"I’m like this is a bad spot up on the stairway," Watson said. "If I get into a fight again I’m still going
to be fighting two people and it's just me on this rickety staircase."

T he deputy moved halfway between the road and the house. T hen he saw the man who had just
arrived walk to the driver's side door of the car and reach inside.

"As he reached my first immediate thought was, 'Oh, great this guy is reaching for a gun, so I drew
my gun out," Watson said.

But when the man's hands appeared he only had a cellphone. And Watson reholstered his gun.

A few minutes later, rescue and a backup deputy arrived. And then more deputies.

Copyrig ht 2018, Daytona Beach News-Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 
A Volusia County sheriff’s deputy who shot and - Daytona Beach News-
Journal, The (FL) - August 7, 2018 - page C3
August 7, 2018 | Daytona Beach News-Journal, The (FL) | Patricio G. Balona patricio.balona@news-jrnl.com |
Article | Page C3

A Volusia County sheriff’s deputy who shot and killed a Seville man while responding alone to a
domestic violence incident over the weekend had backup, but it was 25 miles away, an official said
Monday.

So the Sheriff’s Office is looking for ways to increase the number of deputies in the rural northwest
area of Volusia County or find some form of assistance from nearby counties, said sheriff’s
spokesman Andrew Gant.

“Many of you have asked why a backup deputy did not arrive on scene during the 12 minutes of
body-camera video we provided,” Gant said.

It also took 16 minutes for the first-responding deputy, Brandon Watson, to be sent on the call
because a Volusia County sheriff’s dispatcher had difficulty finding the location of the house on her
computer. T he dispatcher initially contacted Putnam County to see if Seville and the address was in
their jurisdiction, according to 9-1-1 recordings.

At least two Volusia County sheriff’s deputies are dispatched to all priority calls, including domestic
violence-related calls, Gant said.

“A second deputy was dispatched to Friday’s call, too,” Gant said. “However, that deputy was
traveling from DeLand to the remote incident location in Seville, a distance of about 25 miles.”

As backup deputies rushed to help Watson, who was sent on a well-being check at 1600 N. U.S. 17,
Watson found himself the only deputy there with an uncooperative suspect. While trying to figure
out what was happening at the home, a confrontation between Watson and the suspect quickly
escalated, ending with the deputy shooting 29-year-old Emmanuel Alquisiras
Emmanuel Alquisiras , said Sheriff Mike
Chitwood.

Watson was responding to a report of an ongoing domestic disturbance between Alquisiras and
his wife, Elianet Escobar, around 7:39 p.m. Friday.

When Escobar, 24, came out and spoke to the deputy, her husband grabbed her and they started
to struggle at the top of the stairs, investigators said.

Watson shot Alquisiras with a Taser to get him away from the woman but he continued to
struggle with the deputy for several minutes. During the struggle, Alquisiras grabbed the deputy’s
T aser, and the Taser was discharged, investigators said.

Chitwood said in the body-worn camera video at the time of the final struggle, a targeting light
from the Taser appears on a porch rail. It appeared similar to the beam of a flashlight.

T he sheriff said that indicates Alquisiras had control of Watson’s Taser and was ready to fire. T he
deputy then fired five shots from his pistol, hitting Alquisiras four times.

Everything was over by the time backup deputies arrived.

Gant said Seville is a rural unincorporated community with a population of less than 700. Known by
deputies as Zone 21, it’s in the far northwest corner of Volusia County.

“T he geographic area of Zone 21 is extremely large, but the law enforcement call volume there is
extremely low compared to other areas of Volusia County,” Gant said.

“T he reality has always been that fewer deputies are available to immediately respond to a call in
Seville than in Deltona, for example, where population density and call volume are high.” Gant said.

“T he video of Friday’s incident is a clear illustration of that reality.”

In Friday’s case, deputies responded on a well-being check and had third-hand information from
the person who called for help that the woman was being battered by the suspect, Gant said.

T he person who made the call was the Domestic Abuse Council’s victim advocate who was
working to protect Escobar.

She said Escobar had come for help two days before the shooting and she had bruises all over her
body.

“I have a participant who is danger right now,” the advocate said to the dispatcher. “I need that
man out of the house.”

T he advocate said Alquisiras has physically beaten Escobar, even knocking her out with a punch in
one instance, she said in the emergency call.

“We believe that had the deputy not approached the residence to check on her — and had she
turned out to be injured or worse — then we would be facing a different set of questions today,”
Gant said.

T he incident is under review by the Sheriff’s Office.

“As in all cases, and especially in deputy-involved shootings, the Sheriff’s Office is examining every
factor that played a role in Friday’s incident,” Gant said.

“T he agency is taking steps to increase the number of deputies available to respond in a shorter
amount of time in Zone 21, to request and receive aid from neighboring counties when needed
and to communicate the status and location of backup units to the initial unit on scene.”

Copyrig ht 2018, Daytona Beach News-Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 

 
A Volusia County deputy who shot to death a 29-year-old Seville man Friday night while responding to a domestic-

violence call likely saved a woman’s life, Sheriff Mike Chitwood said. 

A worker at a domestic abuse center called the Volusia County Sheriff’s Office saying Emmanuel Alquisiras was

beating the mother of his children. Deputy Brandon Watson responded, and Chitwood defended his decision to fire

at Alquisiras after he grabbed Watson’s Taser, ignoring multiple warnings to surrender. 

“If he loses his firearm, he’s dead,” Chitwood said during a press briefing Saturday, referring to the deputy. 

Watson’s nearest back-ups were 20 minutes away in downtown DeLand, Chitwood said, and if the deputy had left

her there, the 24-year-old woman would have been “a homicide victim.” 

“In my heart of hearts, I think as this thing unfolds, you’re going to see a woman who was basically held captive by

this guy,” Chitwood said. 

The sheriff’s office doesn’t have the details of the conversations between the domestic abuse center and the

woman yet, but it appears she was trying to leave the home, Chitwood said. 

When Watson arrived at about 7:30 at the northwest Volusia home, Alquisiras and another man were sitting at the

top of the stairs leading to the apartment, body camera footage released Saturday shows. A woman came out of

the apartment while Watson was speaking to the men. Alquisiras grabbed her and Watson feared he would throw

her down the stairs, according to the sheriff’s report, so he used the Taser on Alquisiras. 

As Alquisiras sat on the stairs, he repeatedly ignored Watson’s orders to put his hands behind his back and said

“shoot me!” He then grabbed the Taser. 

Watson fired five shots at Alquisiras, striking him four times, Chitwood said. 

Four children were at the home at the time. Their wails can be heard on the body camera footage after Watson

fired the fatal shots. 

earlier this year, Chitwood said. 

Alquisiras was arrested on domestic battery charges in 2008 and trespassed from his children’s day care center

The woman who called the domestic abuse hotline said when Alquisiras uses cocaine, “he tends to beat her and be

extremely violent,” Chitwood said. It’s unclear whether Alquisiras was using cocaine Friday night. 

Watson, who has been a Volusia deputy since May 2015, is on administrative leave while the Florida Department of

Law Enforcement reviews the shooting. 

Chitwood said he couldn’t say whether Watson had used his Taser before, but “by all accounts, he’s an outstanding

deputy.” 

anmartin@orlandosentinel.com 

Credit: Annie Martin 
 
 

Volusia County deputy cleared in fatal shooting - Associated Press State
Wire: Florida (FL) - December 26, 2018
December 26, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Florida (FL)

SEVILLE, Fla. (AP) — A Florida sheriff's deputy has been cleared in the fatal shooting of a drunk man
during a domestic disturbance call.

T he Daytona Beach News-Journal reports the Florida Department of Law Enforcement
investigated the Aug. 3 shooting involving Deputy Brandon Watson.

Emmanuel Alquisiras  seven times during a tense
Investigators say Watson shot 29-year-old Emmanuel Alquisiras
struggle outside the home in Seville, near Daytona Beach. Watson hit Alquisiras with a stun gun,
but the man kept resisting arrest. He stunned him again and the man grabbed for the stun gun.
T hat's when Watson fired, killing Alquisiras.

A 12-minute body camera video captured the altercation.

Sheriff Mike Chitwood said Watson did everything he could to avoid shooting Alquisiras., who had
previous arrests for domestic violence and driving under the influence.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 

APD: Man killed by police was armed - Lapel camera - Albuquerque
Journal (NM) - January 17, 2018 - page A1
January 17, 2018 | Albuquerque Journal (NM) | Copyright © 2018 Albuquerque Journal BY ELISE KAPLAN
JOURNAL STAFF WRITER | Page A1

T he man whom officers shot and killed in a vacant apartment off East Central a week and a half
ago had jumped out at them from a closet, armed with a 3-inch knife and a metal pipe, officials
from the Albuquerque Police Department said T uesday.

In an afternoon news conference with interim Police Chief Michael Geier, Lt. Ray Del Greco of the
Force Investigation T eam, laid out the circumstances that led to the shooting.

Del Greco said eight seconds elapsed between the time when 24-year-old Daniel Saavedra-
Daniel Saavedra-
Arreola  leapt out of the closet in an “ambush style attack” and when he was shot dead on the
Arreola
scene. T he lieutenant said four officers fired a total of 17 times, although he did not know yet how
many times Saavedra-Arreola had been struck. Saavedra-Arreola was identified as Daniel Arreola-
Saavedra last week by his father, and has used many variations of his name in court records.

Although the shooting unfolded in eight seconds, the call started nearly an hour and 40 minutes
earlier, Del Greco said. He said all four officers — Amy O’Dell, Elisa Valdez, Emmett Fritz and Bryce
Willsey — had their lapel video cameras running the entire time, and he played snippets of those
videos. T he full videos will be released to the public today.

Del Greco said shortly before midnight on Jan. 6, an apartment manager of the Luna Lodge
complex on Central, east of Wyoming, called police to say he had seen and heard a man break into
a vacant unit in the back northwest corner. When the officers arrived, they made announcements
for more than an hour to try to get the suspect to exit but were unsuccessful.

He said the officers eventually decided to enter the apartment and cleared each room and closet
before entering the back bedroom.

“T hey weren’t fully sure there was even someone in the room,” Del Greco said. “T hey took their
time in clearing the place. T he fact that someone was actually in that room was not priority in their
mind. At that time this was just another house they were clearing.”

But shortly after they entered the bedroom, the video shows Saavedra-Arreola jumping out of the
closet into the room, erratically swinging a knife and a metal pipe at an officer and backing him into
a corner. One of the officers deployed a Taser but it did not immediately appear to have an effect.

Del Greco said all four officers in the room fired. A sergeant, Andrew Quillmann, was also on the
scene but not in the room and did not shoot.

An APD spokesman, Gilbert Gallegos, said all of the officers were put on paid administrative leave,

which is standard, and two have since returned to work.

O’Dell is a 9-year veteran of the department. Valdez has been with the department four and a half
years, Willsey more than two years and Fritz for a year and a half. Only Willsey has been involved in
a prior shooting. He shot at an attacking dog about six months ago.

Saavedra-Arreola’s history with police includes a conviction for conspiracy to commit second
degree murder in the Downtown shooting of a 16-year-old in 2011. He was released from prison in
July.

More recently he had been charged with armed robbery of a Church’s Chicken restaurant in early
October. A judge denied a request by the District Attorney’s Office to hold him until trial and he was
released from jail with an ankle monitor in late October.

In mid-December, police say Saavedra-Arreola cut off the ankle monitor and he was wanted on a
warrant at the time of the shooting.

However, Del Greco said officers on the scene did not know any of that.

Attorneys representing Saavedra-Arreola’s father, Jesse Arreola, filed a tort claims notice to the
city Tuesday morning indicating an intention to file a lawsuit. Chief Geier said he had not heard
about it yet, but it is not uncommon for families to do so.

Attorney Greg Payne said Saavedra-Arreola was homeless and had not been a threat to anyone
before the officers entered the apartment. He questioned the fact that the officers only gave the
T aser two or three seconds to take effect before they opened fire.

“It appears once they had that encounter and confrontation everyone freaked out,” Payne said.

However, Geier stood by the officers, saying the videos showed that they were in danger in the
tight quarters of the apartment.

“We think they acted appropriately and heroically defending not only themselves, but that one
officer especially who was backed into a corner, facing possible injury from a stabbing type
assault,” Geier said. Videos to be released sooner

Interim police chief promises videos will be released quickly, regardless of their implications A2

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Albuquerque Journal

 

Video of fatal police shooting made public - Albuquerque Journal (NM) -
January 19, 2018 - page A7
January 19, 2018 | Albuquerque Journal (NM) | RYAN BOETEL JOURNAL STAFF WRITER | Page A7

Daniel
T he shooting unfolds rapidly. Seconds after police officers found him hiding in a closet, Daniel
Saavedra- Arreola  is fatally wounded.
Saavedra- Arreola

Albuquerque police on Tuesday showed reporters video of the Jan. 7 incident and on Wednesday
the department released it through Evidence.com, a cloud-based video sharing platform. T he
Journal has made one of the videos, recorded from a police officer’s lapel camera, available on its
website.

T he video is graphic.

Officers Amy O’Dell, Elisa Valdez, Emmett Fritz and Bryce Willsey all fired their weapons during the
encounter.

T he Journal has posted a clip that’s about 10 minutes long at abqjournal. com. In it, officers can be
heard yelling into a vacant apartment on East Central, asking for a suspect to exit. Police had been
called there on a report that a suspect had broken into one of the units. In reality, police said police
officers called on the suspect to exit the apartment for over an hour before they forced their way
through a locked door and started searching.

T he video shows officers checking closets, a kitchen, the bathroom and one of the bedrooms
before they go into the final room of the house, where Saavedra-Arreola is waiting.

As soon as one of the officers opens the closet door, Saavedra-Arreola lunges and starts wildly
swinging a metal pipe and a folding knife. One of the officers narrowly avoids being struck,
according to the video.

Police first shot him with a T aser, which doesn’t have any apparent effect.

T he four officers then fire their weapons a total of 17 times. Saavedra-Arreola dies as a result of
his injuries.

Albuquerque interim Police Chief Michael Geier said this week that he plans to follow a similar
protocol after future police shootings. Once police have finished their preliminary investigation by
interviewing all officers and eyewitnesses, he’ll brief the media on the shooting and provide them
with access to the shooting videos.

Shaun Willoughby, the president of the Albuquerque police union, said that while the union thinks
videos shouldn’t be released until after the district attorney decides whether or not to press
charges, he said it’s a step in the right direction that Geier has created a policy for when the videos

should be released. T he prior administration didn’t have a clear policy on when it would release
videos.

T his was the first shooting that happened since Geier took over the department on Dec. 1.

Online

T o watch the video go to ABQjournal.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Albuquerque Journal

 
Officers’ videos of shooting shown sooner - - Albuquerque Journal (NM) -
January 17, 2018 - page A2
January 17, 2018 | Albuquerque Journal (NM) | Copyright © 2018 Albuquerque Journal BY RYAN BOETEL
JOURNAL STAFF WRITER | Page A2

Albuquerque police on Tuesday showed reporters lapel camera videos of officers fatally shooting a
man armed with a knife and pipe, while the lieutenant overseeing an investigation into the event
provided a play-by-play account of the first police shooting under the new city administration.

Interim Police Chief Michael Geier said during the briefing that he plans to follow a similar practice
— releasing videos to the public and having news conferences about the incidents — in the event
of future police shootings.

Videos will be released promptly after all the involved officers and witnesses have been interviewed,
regardless of how “favorable” the videos may be to police, Geier said.

Several hours of video recordings from the events that led to the shooting will be made publicly
available today, but the police played portions showing critical pieces of the recordings during a
news conference T uesday.

“I mentioned accountability. T his (video) is obviously probably more favorable to police, just from
first impressions,” Geier said at the news conference, the first covering a police shooting since he
took over Dec. 1. “Sometimes (the videos) are questionable. It’s our stance that you’ll see
something like this (a news conference) and you’ll get the videos as well.”

T he startling video shown on Tuesday showed a team of four officers enter a vacant apartment
Daniel Saavedra-Arreola , 24, jumped from a closet and started
building on East Central when Daniel Saavedra- Arreola
swinging a pipe and a knife at officers within the confines of a small bedroom. One officer jumped
out of the way of the man as another officer fired a T aser, which was ineffective. T hen all four
officers fired their weapons about 17 times total, fatally wounding the man.

With the promise that videos of police shootings will be made public relatively early on during an
investigation, the chief has taken a stance on a hot-button topic in Albuquerque and around the
country.

T he Albuquerque Police Department is currently involved in a years-long U.S. Department of Justice
reform effort that aims to address, in part, a large number of police shootings. And two
Albuquerque police officers in 2016 were tried but not convicted on murder charges for an on-duty
shooting, with video as a key part of the evidence.

Around the country, some law enforcement agencies have faced criticism, or had officers charged
with crimes, as a result of on-body camera video. But there’s not a clear standard or practice of
when videos made by police officers become public records. Different departments have different

policies.

Albuquerque police under Chief Gorden Eden, who held the position from February 2014 until Geier
took over, released some videos within days of shootings but waited more than a year to release
other controversial videos.

T he briefing on Tuesday featured other details on the recent police shooting — the type that
weren’t commonly shared under the prior police administration.

Lt. Ray Del Greco of APD’s Force Investigative Team walked the media through the events that
transpired that night.

His briefing included discussing some of the plans and tactics the officers used when they arrived
on scene, and arranging tables in a police conference room and referencing blueprints to show the
size of the room that officers found themselves in when they encountered Saavedra-Arreola.

Del Greco said investigators plan to finish the investigation and submit it to the district attorney
within 70 days for a review.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Albuquerque Journal

 

 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) - Authorities have identified a man who was killed in a shooting involving Albuquerque

police as a wanted ex-felon. 

A police spokesman said Friday the man has been confirmed to be Daniel Saavedra-Arreola. 

Gilbert Gallegos says Saavedra-Arreola had several aliases and served time in various correctional facilities. 

According to police, officers responding to a residential burglary call last Sunday were confronted by a suspect

with a weapon. 

At least one officer opened fire, fatally wounding him. 

A task force is investigating the officer-involved shooting. 

Gallegos says Saavedra-Arreola's past convictions include conspiracy to commit second-degree murder. 

At the time of the shooting, he was wanted for probation violations and considered armed and dangerous. 

Credit: Associated Press 
 
 



Bucks DA clears two police officers in fatal - Philadelphia Daily News
(PA) - March 25, 2018 - page 11
March 25, 2018 | Philadelphia Daily News (PA) | - Robert Moran | Page 11

Bucks County District Attorney Matthew D. Weintraub said Friday that he found that two Bristol
T ownship police officers were justified in fatally shooting a stabbing suspect who allegedly was
wielding a hatchet earlier this month.

Jose Gomez- Burg os
Jose Gomez- Burg os , 29, of New York City, was shot three times and died on March 2 after he
allegedly emerged from a stolen vehicle parked on Edgely Road near Runway Road in Bristol
T ownship with a raised hatchet. Officers David Wiser and Patrick Kitchenman ordered him to stop
and drop the weapon, but Gomez-Burgos did not heed their commands and was within 5 to 8 feet
from the officers when they opened fire, Weintraub said.

After shooting Gomez-Burgos, the officers found that he also was holding a knife hidden in his left
hand, Weintraub said. T he district attorney's decision was aided by two videos recorded by
cameras on police vehicles, Weintraub said.

T he officers were "fully justified" in firing their weapons, he said. Burgos-Gomez was wanted by
New York City police for stabbing the mother of his children earlier that day.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Philadelphia Daily News

 
Officials ID man killed in confrontation with - Bucks County Courier
Times (Levittown, PA) - March 6, 2018 - page A3
March 6, 2018 | Bucks County Courier Times (Levittown, PA) | Article | Page A3

Officials ID man killed in confrontation with Bristol Township police

Officials ID man killed in confrontation with Bristol Township police

BRIST OL TOWNSHIP — County officials have released the name of the man shot and killed by
police Friday in Bristol T ownship.

Jose Gomez Burg os
Jose Gomez Burg os , 29, of Bronx, New York, was shot around 12:15 p.m. on Edgely Road and
taken to Jefferson T orresdale Hospital, where he was pronounced dead, according to the County
District Attorney's Office.

Officials say Bristol Township police responded to a report of a vehicle with New York plates that
had been sitting on the roadside for an extended period of time. Burgos allegedly was sitting in the
vehicle and then confronted police with an unspecified weapon; police fired multiple gunshots,
striking Burgos.

Officials said New York police had been searching for Burgos in connection with a stabbing
involving serious but non-fatal injuries.

County Detectives are continuing to investigate the circumstances of the shooting, including a
standard-procedure review of whether police were justified in their use of deadly force.

T revose firefighter injured by fall

LOWER SOUT HAMPT ON — A firefighter was injured when he fell through a second-story floor
while responding to a house fire early Monday morning.

T im Pristatskiy, a member of the T revose Fire Co., was briefly hospitalized after he suffered minor
injuries as a result of the fall, according to Chief Ed Frydlewicz.

Fire crews arrived at the home on Henry Avenue in Lower Southampton shortly after 2:30 a.m. to
find heavy fire in the attic and roof area, Frydlewicz said. T he chief said Pristatskiy entered the
home to look for anyone trapped inside when the floor gave out underneath him.

“It just so happened another crew from the Feasterville Fire Co. had forced entry into the rear, saw
him, called a mayday and got him out right away,” he added.

Pristatskiy, who also volunteers as an EMT  with several area emergency squads, was taken to St.
Mary Medical Center in Middletown to be checked for loss of breath but has since been released,

Officials later determined the house was unoccupied at the time of the fire and the cause is under
investigation by the Lower Southampton Fire Marshal’s Office.

said the chief.

Staff reports

© Copyrig ht 2018 Bucks County Courier Times, All Rights Reserved.

 
DA: Bristol Twp. officers justified in fatal - Bucks County Courier Times
(Levittown, PA) - March 25, 2018 - page A4
March 25, 2018 | Bucks County Courier Times (Levittown, PA) | Christian Menno cmenno@theintell.com
@cmenno_intell | Article | Page A4

T wo Bristol Township police officers “were fully justified” in fatally shooting a man earlier this
month, according Bucks County District Attorney Matthew Weintraub.

On March 2, police responded to Edgely Road near Runway Road where they encountered 29-
year-old Jose Gomez- Burg os
police for allegedly stabbing a woman earlier that day.

Jose Gomez- Burg os , who was armed with a hatchet. He was wanted by New York City

Weintraub said before arriving in the area, Gomez-Burgos called 911 and admitted to the stabbing.
Family members reported that he told them he wanted to die, he added.

T wo video cameras on police vehicles showed Gomez-Burgos raising the hatchet and quickly
walking toward Officer David Wiser, Weintraub said. T he man ignored commands to drop the
weapon and when he got within 5 to 8 feet of police, Wiser and Officer Patrick Kitchenman shot at
him, the DA added. A knife was found hidden in his left hand.

Gomez-Burgos was shot three times and pronounced dead at Jefferson T orresdale Hospital after
attempts to save him.

“Unquestionably, the defendant disregarded lawful commands from Officer Wiser and other
officers to stop and to drop his weapons,” Weintraub wrote in a letter to Bristol Township police
Chief Robert Coulton on Friday. “T he subject clearly placed Officer Wiser in apparent danger of
Jose Gomez- Burg os  created a situation in which it was inevitable
death or serious bodily injury. ... Jose Gomez- Burg os
that the officers would open fire at him in both self-defense and in defense of their fellow officers.”

T he investigation was conducted by county detectives, as is the standard procedure for any fatal
police-involved shooting.

© Copyrig ht 2018 Bucks County Courier Times, All Rights Reserved.

 
Bx. stab susp shot dead by police in Pa - New York Daily News (NY) -
March 6, 2018 - page 26
March 6, 2018 | New York Daily News (NY) | Nicole Hensley and John Annese | Page 26

POLICE IN a Philadelphia suburb shot and killed a man who was a suspect in a Bronx stabbing,
authorities said Monday.

Jose Gomez- Burg os  at about 12:15 p.m. Friday, after he
Cops in Bristol Township opened fire on Jose Gomez- Burg os
"confronted police officers with a weapon or weapons," said Larry King of the Bucks County district
attorney's office.

Hours earlier, Gomez-Burgos repeatedly stabbed his 25-year-old girlfriend outside their apartment
building, police sources said. She was rushed to St. Barnabas in critical condition but is on the mend,
cops said.

Several details surrounding the shooting remain murky. T he Bucks County DA's office, which is
investigating the shooting, didn't describe the type of weapon the man held.

© Copyrig ht 2018 New York Daily News. All rights reserved.

 