Report of suicidal man leads to shooting - Search - Roanoke Times, The
(VA) - August 31, 2018 - page 1B
August 31, 2018 | Roanoke Times, The (VA) | Mike Gangloff mike.gangloff@roanoke.com 381-1669 | Page 1B

CHRIST IANSBURG - Sheriff's deputies who shot and killed a Montgomery County 18-year-old
Saturday had come to his house because of a report of an attempted suicide, according to a
search warrant.

Virginia State Police investigators later collected firearms and other items from the man's
residence, the search warrant said.

Filed in Montgomery County Circuit Court, the search warrant outlined how Saturday's encounter
between Taylor K.E. T incher

T aylor K.E. Tincher and county sheriff's deputies began.

Officers were called to the 900 block of Walton Road, in the Walton section of the county west of
Christiansburg, at about 7:40 a.m., the search warrant said. A caller had told an emergency
dispatcher that a man had tried to kill himself using carbon monoxide from a vehicle exhaust, the
search warrant said.

T he warrant offered less description of what officers found, saying only, "While officers were on-
scene, a firearm was discharged. T he suicidal subject received injuries causing death."

On Saturday and Sunday, police statements said that the county deputies found Tincher in his
house with a handgun. T hey told him repeatedly to put it down but he instead "began advancing
towards the deputies in a threatening manner," a news release said.

T he deputies shot T incher, then called emergency medical workers who took him to Carilion New
River Valley Medical Center. He died there, according to a news release last weekend. No deputies
were hurt, news releases said.

County Sheriff Hank Partin immediately asked state police to investigate.

T he search warrant said that state police removed three pistols and a rifle from the Walton Road
property. Other items seized included three .223-caliber shell casings, a .40-caliber shell casing, two
bullets, a bullet fragment, clothing, a "notebook with assorted writings," an earring and a Fitbit
watch, and handcuffs, the search warrant said.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Roanoke Times

 