Officer cleared in February shooting - DA's office - Las Cruces Sun-News
(NM) - May 10, 2018 - page A5
May 10, 2018 | Las Cruces Sun-News (NM) | Sun-News Reports | Page A5

LAS CRUCES - T he Las Cruces police officer who shot and killed a murder suspect in February has
been cleared of any wrongdoing, police said Wednesday.

T he announcement came several days after the 3rd Judicial District Attorney's Office reviewed the
case and determined that Officer Joseph Campa, of the Las Cruces Police Department, acted in
accordance with New Mexico law when he fatally shot 23-year-old Nathaniel M ontoya
17 at a gas station.

N athaniel Montoya  on Feb.

"After an extensive review of this case, we have concluded that the shooting by Officer Joseph
Campa was justified under New Mexico law," District Attorney Mark D'Antonio wrote in a letter
dated May 3. "T his office will not be taking any action against this officer."

T he officer-involved shooting came a day after police said Montoya shot and killed 29-year-old
Abraham Gomez in the 2300 block of Sambrano Avenue.

Police said a witness reported seeing Montoya and Gomez engage in a scuffle outside an
apartment that apparently escalated and resulted in Gomez's Feb. 16 shooting death.

Montoya allegedly fled the scene before police arrived, and Gomez was transported to a Las
Cruces-area hospital, where he was pronounced dead. Police said Gomez suffered one gunshot
wound to his back. Investigators identified Montoya as the primary suspect in Gomez's death.

According to police, Montoya left the Sambrano address in a Dodge Durango, which was was
found abandoned later that night on Bataan Memorial East between Roadrunner Parkway and
Rinconada Boulevard. A witness told officers that the driver of the Durango entered a purple
minivan before it was seen heading east along U.S. 70.

Around noon Feb. 17, investigators learned the minivan was reported stolen. Its owner indicated
the vehicle was not running properly the day before, so it was left on the side of the road.
Investigators believe Montoya exchanged the battery from his Durango into the minivan and was
then able to start it.

Shortly after 5 p.m., an LCPD officer spotted Montoya driving the minivan on Galina Drive and
initiated a traffic stop. T he minivan briefly stopped but then fled from the officer.

T he officer engaged in a pursuit that traveled south on Rinconada, south on Sonoma Ranch
Boulevard and then west in the eastbound lanes of traffic on Lohman Avenue. Campa heard of the
pursuit on his unit's radio and joined the pursuit near Rinconada, police said.

Reaching speeds of 60 miles per hour, the pursuit continued west on Lohman until the minivan
entered the parking lot of the Valero Corner Store, 1401 E. Lohman Ave., and crashed into several
parked vehicles.

Campa pinned his unit to the driver's side of the minivan, police said.

Police said Campa exited his unit and gave several commands for Montoya to show his hands.
Investigators believe that's when Montoya raised a firearm that appeared to be a sawed-off
shotgun, police said. Campa fired several rounds striking Montoya, who was pronounced dead on
the scene.

A bystander recording the incident on their phone captured 12 gunshots in quick succession,
followed by another gunshot seconds later.

Investigators determined that the weapon in Montoya's possession was a .22-caliber rifle that had
been modified to resemble a shotgun. It was found between the two front seats of the minivan,
police said.

A 33-year-old pedestrian, who was between two vehicles in the Valero parking lot, was injured when
the minivan entered the property and struck several parked cars. Officers and a doctor who
happened to be nearby provided first aid until the pedestrian was transported to a local hospital.
His injuries were not life-threatening.

Campa was not wearing a body camera at the time of the shooting, police said.

According to police, Campa had been working earlier in the day as part of the initial shooting
investigation on Sambrano Avenue. He left the station, leaving his lapel camera to charge in its
docking station. Campa went home for a short while and, on his way back to the station for an
overtime assignment, heard radio transmissions of the pursuit. He then joined other officers in the
active pursuit.

T wo surveillance cameras from the Valero store show the minivan speeding into the parking lot
followed by several LCPD units.

Campa, a seven-year veteran of LCPD, was not injured during the incident and was immediately
placed on administrative leave. He returned to duty in late February.

Copyrig ht © 2018 The Las Cruces Sun-News.

 