Middlesex DA identifies man shot dead by cop in - Boston Herald (MA) -
February 10, 2018 - page 9
February 10, 2018 | Boston Herald (MA) | BRIAN DOWLING | Volume 36 | Issue 41 | Page 9

Authorities investigating an officer-involved shooting in Reading last weekend have released the
name of the man who was shot and killed.

T he man shot Saturday afternoon while fleeing from police officers was Alan Greenoug h
Reading, a spokeswoman for Middlesex District Attorney Marian T . Ryan said yesterday.

Alan Greenoug h, 43, of

“T his remains an open and active investigation being conducted by the Middlesex District
Attorney’s Office, Massachusetts State Police assigned to the Middlesex District Attorney’s Office
and Reading Police,” said spokeswoman Meghan Kelly, who indicated a full report on the incident
would be released.

Greenough was born in New Hampshire but raised in North Reading, which is where he lived until
he moved to Reading five years ago, according to his online obituary.

T he obituary made no mention of the incident leading to his death other than to say he “died
unexpectedly” on Feb. 3.

“Alan was his own person with love for the simple life,” the obituary read. “He was kind, thoughtful
and sensitive. Alan had a great love for animals. He loved his family and would put anyone before
himself. Alan loved to fish and enjoyed taking long walks through Harold Parker with his beloved
dog Buddy. He had a heart of gold and will be missed but never forgotten by all.”

T he obituary said Greenough is survived by his parents, two siblings and a host of other relatives.
His funeral was held yesterday at St. Theresa’s Church in North Reading, where Greenough was a
member, according to the obituary.

A relative of Greenough reached in New Hampshire said family members were unavailable for
comment.

Greenough was shot by a Reading cop after police say he evaded officers who went to his Main
Street home to investigate a past assault involving a household member.

He was sent to Lahey Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. T he name of the officer who shot
Greenough has not been released.

— brian.dowling@bostonherald.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Boston Herald

 