It's unlikely anyone will ever know what went - Villager, The
(Northborough-Southborough, MA) - August 24, 2018 - page A2
August 24, 2018 | Villager, The (Northborough-Southborough, MA) | Eli Sherman esherman@wickedlocal.com
| Article | Page A2

It's unlikely anyone will ever know what went through the mind of Weymouth Police Sgt. Michael
Chesna in the moments leading up to his death.

But court documents detailing the deadly July 15 morning suggest Chesna had his gun drawn and
didn't fire, even as his alleged killer charged him with a rock.

Whatever his reasons, the decision not to pull the trigger is feeding into a national debate
surrounding police-involved shootings, arguably one of the most-divisive community-based issues
in modern times.

"When (officers) have to make a decision, they have to make it in a split second, and if there's
hesitation -- hesitation that they might be the next case nationwide that takes their livelihood, their
family and their reputation away from them -- hesitation gets officers harmed," said Weymouth
Police Chief Richard Grimes during a vigil for Chesna.

In Massachusetts, Chesna is the sixth police officer to die by gunfire in the last decade and the
second to die this year, according to Officer Down Memorial Page, a nonprofit that tracks line-of-
duty deaths nationwide.

Marshfield Police Chief Phil T avares says the job has become more dangerous, citing an increasing
"disrespect for authority." And Grimes believes the widespread criticism makes the job more
difficult, especially for beat police.

"T his is a bad message to send to the men and women that are on the street every day just like
Michael," Grimes said.

T he sentiment is echoed among rank and file, including Officer Edward O'Brien, of the Weymouth
Police Department, who expressed his frustration in a July 22 Facebook post.

"We make mistakes like everyone else. We're not perfect and we have bad apples like every other
profession," he wrote. "T he country has labeled and vilified police officers to a point that a small
but vocal portion of the public thinks that all officers are crooked, uneducated and bullies. Take a
look at the facts. None of that narrative is true and I'm done trying to apologize for it."

Much of the public scrutiny has been building for years and stems from the hundreds of fatal
shootings by law enforcement reported each year in the United States, which advocates argue
happen without much accountability.

"Accountability for police use of lethal force is severely lacking in the United States," according to a
2015 report by Amnesty International, a human rights organization.

In the wake of the 2014 fatal shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, which sparked
protests across the country and the formation of Black Lives Matter and subsequently Blue Lives
Matter, T he Washington Post started tracking fatal shootings by police.

As of July 9, the newspaper reported 576 people across the country had been shot and killed by
police in 2018, which is 10 more than the same period last year. T he number of deaths during 2017
totaled 987, according to the database. In Massachusetts, 25 people have been shot and killed by
police since 2015, which includes Alan Greenoug h
February.

Alan Greenoug h, who was shot dead by Reading Police in

Unlike the shooting of Chesna, however, there's not much known publicly about Greenough's
killing. Fatal shootings by law enforcement in Massachusetts are investigated by district attorney
offices and the Massachusetts State Police. And because no charges are brought against the
dead, public information about the shooting isn't released until charges are filed, or the
investigation concludes.

A Middlesex DA spokeswoman told Wicked Local on July 25 the Greenough investigation, which
started in February, remains open and ongoing. She could not provide a timeline for when it might
come to a close. T he opaque investigative process fuels public perception -- deserved or not --
that there's a lack of impartial and independent accountability when it comes to fatal shootings by
police, according to advocates.

"T he fact that investigations are handled internally and that prosecutors have to maintain good
working relationships with the police as well as fulfill their duty to investigate and prosecute police
use of lethal force, has led to calls being made for independent investigations and prosecutors,"
according to Amnesty International.

Massachusetts is also one of nine states without laws on the use of lethal force by law
enforcement officers, according to Amnesty International, which violates international standards,
according to a special report done for the United Nations Human Rights Council.

"T he police in any society will at some point be confronted with a situation where they have to
decide whether to use force and, if so, how much. Enacting an adequate domestic legal framework
for such use of force by police officials is thus a state obligation, and the states that do not do this
are in violation of their international obligations," according to the report.

T he tension between local police and their communities, however, is not absolute, and Chesna's
death is evidence. Thousands of Massachusetts residents attended a vigil for Chesna. And letters
and social media posts detailing appreciation and gratitude for police have flooded into the Norfolk
County community.

Following the sargeant's death, Gov. Charlie Baker, a Republican, signed into law a new $2 fee on
rental cars to fund more police training and new recruits. T he new fee will fund up to $10 million
each year, which Baker -- who generally opposes new taxes and fees -- told the State House News

Service was needed, especially after the deaths of Chesna and other officers in recent years.

"I know this bill isn't named after anybody, but if it were to be named after someone, I think we
would choose to name it after the men and women who have been killed in the line of duty and
their families," Baker said.

For Grimes, moving forward, he's asking the public for empathy.

"T he courts, the politicians and everybody in this country should put themselves in that split-second
decision and you tell me," he said.

Eli Sherman is an investigative and in-depth reporter at Wicked Local and GateHouse Media. Email
him at esherman@wickedlocal.com, or follow him on T witter @Eli_Sherman.

Copyrig ht, 2018 Villag er, The. All Rights Reserved.

 