UPDATED: 1 dead in officer-involved shooting in - World, The (Coos Bay,
OR) - June 23, 2018
June 23, 2018 | World, The (Coos Bay, OR) | Amanda Linares

COOS BAY — A Coos Bay resident armed with a rifle was shot dead Saturday morning at
approximately 6:44 a.m. by officers near a residence located at 475 Johnson Ave., according to a
press release from Coos County District Attorney Paul Frasier.

Early Saturday, Coos Bay police had attempted on two separate occasions to arrest Eric Sweet
Eric Sweet
for a felony attempting to elude a police officer. In both incidents, pursuits were discontinued for
safety reasons.

Officers arrived at Sweet's home on Johnson Avenue to find his car parked several feet from the
curb and his driver's door open. Sweet later exited his home with a rifle and was ordered by police
to drop his weapon.

According to the press release, Sweet pointed the rifle toward one of the police officers at the
scene resulting in all three officers opening fire. Shots were fired from an officer with the Coos Bay
Police Department, an officer from the Confederated Tribal Police and a trooper from the Oregon
State Police. Sweet was pronounced dead at the scene from his wounds.

"I am not releasing the names of the officers at this time," said Frasier. "All three officers have
been placed on paid administrative leave pending the results of this investigation."

Witnesses said they heard what sounded like fireworks and then a man's voice yelling, "Get the (f---
) out!" Soon after, a neighbor said she heard about three gun shots a pause and then two more
shots.

Frasier has recused the Coos Bay Police Department, the Confederated Tribal Police and the
Oregon State Police from the investigation, following the Coos County Deadly Force Policy. In
addition, the North Bend Police Department has also been recused, for being involved in the
attempt to arrest Sweet earlier in the day. NBPD was not actually involved in the shooting.

"T o assist in the investigation I have asked for and received help from the Douglas County Major
Crimes T eam," said Frasier. "I have also asked for assistance from the Eugene Police Department
to assist in the forensic examination of the scene."

Officers from the Coos County Sheriff's Office, Bandon Police, Myrtle Point Police, Coos County
Medical Examiner's Office and the District Attorney's Office have been enlisted for assistance. T he
Coos County Sheriff's Office will be leading the investigation and have asked anyone with
information related to this case to contact deputies.

Copyrig ht, 2018, Southwestern Oreg on Publishing  Co., Inc.

 