The Latest: Chicago police tweet gun photo after - Associated Press
State Wire: Illinois (IL) - June 7, 2018
June 7, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

CHICAGO (AP) — T he Latest on the fatal shooting of a man by a Chicago police officer (all times
local):

12:25 p.m.

Chicago police have posted a photograph of a handgun they say a man was carrying when he was
fatally shot by an officer on the city's South Side.

Department spokesman Anthony Guglielmi (goo-lee-EHL'-mee) posted the photo on T witter
T hursday.

He says the weapon was recovered at the scene of the Wednesday night shooting death of 24-
year-old Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr.

Granton's relatives have expressed doubts that the weapon belonged to him, and say they want to
know why Granton was shot as he ran away.

Police say Granton was shot during a narcotics investigation. T hey say when officers approached
on foot, he ran. T hey say when the officers ordered him to stop, he "produced a weapon,"
prompting an officer to shoot him.

Granton was pronounced dead at University of Chicago Hospital.

___

6:40 a.m.

Relatives of a man who was fatally shot by a Chicago police officer during a narcotics investigation
say they want answers about why the confrontation turned deadly.

T he shooting happened Wednesday night in the Bronzeville neighborhood on the city's South Side.

Police say the suspect fled on foot when officers approached. A police statement early T hursday
says officers told the man to stop and he "produced a weapon," so the officer shot him. T he man
was taken to University of Chicago Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability and the Cook County medical examiner's office identified
him as Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr.

T he 24-year-old man's sister, Joanna Varnado, asked T he Chicago T ribune: "Since when does
running validate somebody getting shot?"

At the hospital, police and security blocked people from getting inside as tensions flared.

___

11:35 p.m.

Chicago police say an officer has fatally shot a suspect after an armed confrontation.

Sgt. Rocco Ailoto says the incident occurred around 8:10 p.m. in the Bronzeville neighborhood on
the city's South Side. He says the suspect fled on foot when officers approached. After the officer
shot the suspect, the man was taken to University of Chicago Hospital, where he was pronounced
dead.

Department spokesman Anthony Guglielmi (goo-lee-EHL'-mee) tweeted earlier that the suspect's
gun was recovered by police. He added that the officer may have broken an ankle during the
confrontation.

Ailoto said the officer has been placed on 30-day administrative leave due to department policy.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability was investigating at the scene.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 