
 
June 07--Chicago police shot and killed a man Wednesday night after what police described as an "armed

confrontation" on the South Side. 

The man has been identified as Maurice Granton Jr., said Civilian Office of Police Accountability spokesman

Ephraim Eaddy. Granton's family said he is 24 and has two young daughters. 

Around 8:10 p.m., officers conducting a narcotics investigation in the 300 block of East 47th Street in the

Bronzeville neighborhood approached Granton, who ran from them, said Chicago police Sgt. Rocco Alioto. 

Officers chased him, and an "armed confrontation" ensued, Alioto said. 

An officer fired a gun, hitting Granton, he said. Police did not say where the man was shot, or elaborate on the

circumstances surrounding the encounter. 

He was taken to University of Chicago Medical Center, where he was later pronounced dead. 

"Since when does running validate somebody getting shot?" said Granton's sister, Joanna Varnado. "I don't

understand that. You're not being offensive, you're being defensive." 

An officer was also injured while hopping a fence. He may have a broken ankle, police said. 

Police said they recovered a gun on scene. Granton's family doubted whether it was his. 

"I just want to know what the real story is," Varnado said. "If it was misconduct, I want justice. My brother was 24

years old. He loved his girls. That's all he lived for, was his kids." 

Now, Varnado said, the family is trying to love and support one another while coming to terms with their loss and

trying to find out more about Granton's fatal encounter with police. 

"It's still unbelievable," she said. "We're still just trying to intake all this, process it, deal with it, our emotions [are] all

over the place. We are talking about him, we are laughing." 

Tension builds between police and bystanders 

Granton was pronounced dead at 8:41 p.m. Wednesday, about a half hour after he was shot, according to the Cook

County Medical Examiner. However, family waited at the hospital for word of his condition for several hours. 

As family and friends gathered in the waiting room, they were told to move outside, where a hospital official

addressed the growing crowd. 

He initially told them there were currently three gunshot victims in the emergency room and they were waiting for

identification, so he couldn't give out any information. 

Around 10:30 p.m., family and hospital officials began loudly arguing about where people were allowed to wait.

Authorities tried to usher the crowd into another lobby nearby, but they insisted on staying outside the emergency

room lobby if they weren't allowed to be inside the waiting room. 

"[Expletive] that. [Expletive] trying to make us move. [Expletive] the police. They shot him," one man said. "We

waiting, bro. We waiting this out. Our family here is shot. Fighting for his life." 

Security outside the emergency room grew to more than a dozen officers, from both the Chicago and University of

Chicago police departments, who created a line in front of the entrance and said the area was on lockdown. 

Police eventually let Varnado and a few other family members inside. Around 11:45 p.m., Varnado walked back out.

She stood next to Tayshia Shaw, who has two daughters with Granton, a one-year-old and another who has not yet

had her first birthday. 

"No he's not," Shaw said. "No..." 

As the truth sank in, Shaw dropped to the sidewalk, lying on her left side. Varnado sat cross-legged with Shaw's

head in her lap, and the women tried to comfort each other through their own tears. 

Meanwhile, several others in the group yelled at police and hospital staff, accusing them of racism and

wrongdoing. Almost silently, the wall of officers continued to guard the entrance the University of Chicago's new

Level I trauma center, which opened on May 2, bringing a flood of gunshot victims to the hospital that would

previously have been transported to one of the city's other trauma centers. 

People injured in the area where Granton was shot were often previously transported to Northwestern Memorial

Hospital on the Near North Side. 

The new center is the South Side's first since the early 1990s, and is expected to serve 2,700 to 4,000 patients a

year. The center cared for 274 adult trauma patients in its first four weeks. 

At the scene of the shooting, near the 47th Street Green Line stop and a liquor store, crowds of people gathered at

the liquor store just outside of the crime scene. 

Some remained in the area while officers updated members of the media, and shouted questions, asking police

where on his body the man was shot. Others shouted at officers who walked by, asking them how they justified the

shooting. 

Frederick Hill, who lives in the area, was walking to the liquor store on the corner of 47th Street and Indiana when

he saw paramedics loading a man into an ambulance. 

Hill said all four corners were crowded with people. They were upset and yelling, he said. 

"People were crying," Hill said. "They wanted to fight." 

'But then this happened' 

Shaw was a freshman and Granton was a sophomore when the two met at Walter Henri Dyett High School for the

Arts in Washington Park. They became friends and, about five years later, started dating, Shaw said. Her favorite

things about him including his personality and his smile. Even though they were no longer a couple, they saw each

other often and were both involved in their daughters' lives, Shaw said. 

Growing up with different foster parents, there were years when Varnado and Granton saw each other only

occasionally, at court-supervised appointments, she said. Varnado said the two reconnected as adults and

described her brother as silly and playful, crazy about his kids and impossible to stay mad at. 

"He's not a bad person," Varnado said. "He always plays. ... He could turn any bad situation into a good one." 

"He's a family man," she continued. "That's all he wanted, because he never had one." 

In the summer, Granton could be found playing basketball at a number of neighborhood courts. He was a particular

fan of the Golden State Warriors' Stephen Curry, Shaw said. He didn't listen to much rap, favoring older R&B such

as Gladys Knight and Luther Vandross. He sang to his kids all the time. His older daughter liked a Drake song,

"God's Plan," so he'd dance around with her and sing along, Shaw said. 

Cheese pizza was his favorite food, typically Home Run Inn bought frozen from Aldis. Shaw said she picked one up

for him Wednesday and was supposed to cook it that night. 

"But then this happened." 

Though records show Granton has an arrest history, his family said that's all in the past. 

"We all grew up in the system," Varnado said. We didn't have our parents. You are a product of your environment.

When he was lashing out, he didn't know who he was, but he turned it around when he had those girls." 

The Civilian Office of Police Accountability is investigating the shooting, and the officer will be placed on

administrative leave. 

COPA Chief Sydney Roberts issued a statement on social media early Thursday morning, stating COPA

investigators remained on the scene and were talking to witnesses. 

CREDIT: By Hannah Leone and Madeline Buckley 

