Kent killed in Pembroke by deputy after shots - Daily News, The
(Batavia, NY) - April 13, 2018 - page A1
April 13, 2018 | Daily News, The (Batavia, NY) | SCOTT DESMIT sdesmit@batavianews.com | Page A1

An Albion man has been identified as the person shot and killed by a Genesee County sheriff's
deputies late Wednesday night, a man who had been in recent contact with T he Daily News,
making vague threats of violence in rambling letters.

Keith Alan Kent
Keith Alan Kent , 61, was shot after he pointed a handgun at a deputy who arrived at the Indian
Falls Log Cabin Restaurant for a report of a man threatening patrons and firing shots both inside
and outside the restaurant.

Kent, brother of former Orleans County Legislator Gary Kent, was pronounced dead at the scene
of the shooting, which happened about 11 p.m.

Investigators said Kent had been acting violent, making threats and wanting to fight people before
police arrived.

Investigators also said Kent asked "Where are the police?" minutes before a deputy arrived.

Undersheriff Gregory Walker said Kent was shot to death after he pointed a handgun at the deputy
despite several commands to drop the gun.

Walker said the deputy's body camera was activated and added "we do have body cam footage
that will be reviewed."

Deputies were called to the restaurant on Gilmore Road just before 11 p.m. for a report that a man
was threatening people. As a deputy was en route, more reports came in that the man was firing
shots inside and outside the restaurant, Walker said.

T he deputy who shot Kent was the first on the scene.

Walker said he did not want to divulge whether any other officers were at the scene at the time of
the shooting.

State police have taken over the investigation at the Sheriff's Department's request, Walker said.

State police have not released any other details.

Walker said the deputy will be taking time off and then be assigned administrative duties once he
returns.

T he department has never had to deal with such a situation, at least not in recent memory.

"T he deputy will be debriefed and we have counselors available," Walker said.

T he department also has an employee assistance program.

"T his is the first time for our department to have to deal with something like this," Walker said.

Nine people were inside the restaurant at the time of the shooting.

Kent, who, with his family, owns Jordan River Logging in Barre, sent T he Daily News a five-page
letter (See related story) dated March 30, a rambling letter detailing events going back nearly 20
years ago involving his logging company and subsequent arrest for bilking a woman out of money.

At one point in the letter Kent says "I have been driven to the brink of COMPLET E INSANIT Y over
this and it will end soon."

Copyrig ht, 2018, Johnson Newspaper Corporation

 