
 
Police identified the officers and deputy involved in a deadly shootout in the city of Rochester on Wednesday

morning. 

In all, 13 Rochester police officers and one Monroe County sheriff's deputy were involved in the shootout that left

Terrell Blake, 39, dead after he allegedly killed his ex-girlfriend and shot two others, including his 20-year-old son. 

The following officers were involved in the shootout and have been "assigned administrative duties pending the

outcome of the respective internal investigations of this event," according to a release. 

Sgt. Brian Phillips, 46, 18 years with the Rochester Police Department; 

Sgt. Dan Brochu, 53, 15 years with RPD; 

Sgt. Josh Lewis, 38, 12 years with RPD; 

Officer Tito Batson, 38, 13 years with RPD; 

Officer Ryan Hartley, 40, 12 years with RPD; 

Officer Brandon Mandurano, 38, 12 years with RPD; 

Officer Thomas Deane, 32, 11 years with RPD; 

Officer Richard Doran, 42, 10 years with RPD; 

Officer Jordan Bracey, 45, 10 years with RPD; 

Officer Jonathan Marsh, 33, nine years with RPD; 

Officer John Woicyk, 27, two years with RPD; 

Officer William Minks, 30, one year with RPD; 

Officer Harry Scorse, 31, one year with RPD; 

Deputy Paolo Saieva, 27, 51/2 years with MCSO. 

Authorities have not released which or how many of these officers shot Blake. 

Police said that Terrell Blake shot two people at a Post Avenue home Wednesday morning, killing his former

girlfriend and seriously injuring another man. 

He then drove to a location on Frances Street where he shot his 20-year-old son. 

Blake then led police on a high-speed chase while driving a rented U-Haul van, shooting at officers as he tried to

reach the home of other family members. 

Blake was killed in a shootout with police in the driveway of that home. 

WCLEVELAND@Gannett.com 

Rochester Police race to the scene at Bay Street near Frances Street following a police chase and shootout in

SHAWN DOWD/ROCHESTER DEMOCRAT AND CHRONICLE 

Rochester Wednesday. 

CREDIT: Will Cleveland 
 
 
