
 
Terrell Blake, the man who police say was responsible for a shooting rampage in the city Wednesday, was the

father of a teen convicted last month in connection with the shooting of a Rochester police officer. 

Kamiu Blake, 18, is one of two teenagers accused of conducting a June 2017 shootout that caught Rochester

Police Officer Jeremy Nash in the crossfire. 

The younger Blake pleaded guilty in July to attempted first-degree assault and an unrelated second-degree

criminal possession of a weapon charge and was sentenced last month to 12 years and five years, respectively, in

state prison. 

crossfire. 

Tykal Glover, 17, who is charged with two counts of first-degree assault and four counts of second-degree criminal

possession of a weapon, all felonies, pleaded guilty on Thursday to one count of first-degree assault and four

counts of second-degree criminal possession of a weapon in connection with the shooting. 

Glover and Blake were engaged in a shootout on North Street, and Nash, while in his car, was struck in the

Nash was struck with multiple pellets from a shotgun round and sustained injuries to his head, face, neck, left eye

and left forearm. He was rushed to Rochester General Hospital. 

Blake allegedly fired a 9mm pistol multiple times at Glover, but did not hit him. 

Glover will be sentenced on Nov. 19 in state Supreme Court. He faces up to 18 years in prison. 

Police said that Terrell Blake shot two people at a Post Avenue home Wednesday morning, killing his former

girlfriend and seriously injuring another man. 

He then drove to a location on Frances Street, where he shot his 20-year-old son. Blake then led police on a high-

speed chase while driving a rented U-Haul van, shooting at officers as he tried to reach the home of other family

members. Blake was killed in a shootout with police in the driveway of that home. 

Includes reporting by staff writer Meaghan M. McDermott. 

SLAHMAN@Gannett.com 

WCLEVELAND@Gannett.com 

Terrell Blake 

Kamiu Blake 

CREDIT: Sean Lahman; Will Cleveland 
 
 
