
 
A group of police supporters plan to rally Sunday near the spot where South Whitehall Township police officer

Jonathan Roselle fatally shot a man two weeks ago. 

At the same time, community activists in Allentown will hold an interfaith service to honor the man who died,

Joseph Santos of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., and call for an end to police brutality. 

The Facebook group Support Officer Jonathan Roselle and Our Men and Woman in Blue is calling for a peaceful

demonstration, not only for Roselle - charged with voluntary homicide in the July 28 shooting of 44-year-old Santos

- but on behalf of police generally. 

"I'm not a cop, I don't know what cops go through," said Corey Fatzinger, 33, of New Tripoli, who first floated the

rally idea on Facebook a couple of days ago. "But I can only imagine what they go through in today's society." 

The rally is scheduled for 2 p.m. on Hamilton Boulevard near the Comfort Inn Suites, where the shooting happened. 

The NAACP Allentown Branch said Thursday the planned rally for the police is poorly timed and should be

canceled. 

seek justice in the shooting. 

In a news release, the NAACP said the rally would be insensitive to the Santos family and provocative to those who

Make the Road PA and other activist groups that have protested the shooting plan a 2 p.m. event to remember

Santos and urge that Roselle be convicted. 

That event will be held at Resurrected Life Church, 144 N. Ninth St., Allentown. 

According to authorities, Santos had been jumping on moving vehicles along the 3700 block of Hamilton

Boulevard when Roselle arrived. 

the officer firing five shots. 

Several videos shared on Facebook moments after the shooting showed Santos walking away from the stopped

police car, then reversing course as Roselle shouts repeatedly for him to get on the ground. The video then shows

On Tuesday, Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin announced Roselle had been charged with voluntary

homicide. He said the officer was not justified in using deadly force, given that Santos was not armed or

committing a felony and that deadly force was not necessary to prevent death or secure an arrest. 

Roselle chose to use a gun instead of less lethal options at his disposal, notably a baton, pepper spray and Taser -

all of which were in working order, Martin said. 

Days after the shooting, about 100 people attended a vigil at Hamilton Boulevard and Lincoln Avenue to support

the family and demand action to keep police from turning to lethal force in such cases. 

The vigil also focused on the racial element of the case. Many protesters said the outcome would have been

different had the Latino Santos been white. 

Fatzinger said Sunday's rally "has nothing to do with race. I don't see color. I see good people and bad people and

everything in between. We don't want any racists out there, any white power stuff." 

The event is about recognizing that police, dedicated to protecting the public, are often forced to make split-

second decisions that could lead to tragedy, he said. 

"Whoever comes out to support the officer, I don't want any disrespect shown," Fatzinger said. "No looting or

rioting or property damage. Once people start doing that, our cause goes down the drain." 

A memorial of flowers, candles and other items grew up at the shooting scene in the days that followed. But even

some who generally back the police aren't sure this is an appropriate spot for a pro-police rally. 

"I think where you have it in such close proximity to where it happened, it sends a message that is at the very least

disrespectful," said Peter Ramstine of Catasauqua, adding that he is a strong supporter of law enforcement but

probably won't attend the rally. 

"I support the idea behind it, but it's in poor taste," said Ramstine, who saw the rally on Facebook and posted a

South Whitehall Chief Glen Dorney and Roselle's lawyer, Gavin Holihan, did not respond to a messages for

Reporters Carol Thompson and Frank Warner contributed to this story. 

Credit: By Daniel Patrick Sheehan - Of The Morning Call - Reporters Carol Thompson and Frank Warner contributed

Flowers mark the spot where Joseph Santos was fatally shot by a police officer July 28. A group supporting the

officer, Jonathan Roselle, will hold a rally there Sunday. 

comment. 

comment. 

to this story. 

Caption: Joseph Santos 

Morning Call File photo 
 
 
