
 
Lehigh County 911 dispatches about a man who allegedly interfered with traffic along Hamilton Boulevard before a

South Whitehall officer shot and killed him Saturday night reveal the first officer on the scene called for backup for

a possible "mental issue." 

not release other details. 

Authorities on Monday identified the dead man as 44-year-old Joseph Santos of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., but did

An autopsy will be conducted today to determine the official cause and manner of death. 

State police and the Lehigh County Homicide Task Force police are investigating the shooting that happened

shortly before 6 p.m. on Hamilton Boulevard outside Dorney Park. 

"I'm in front of the Comfort Suites with a possible, uh, mental issue here," the unidentified officer says on the 911

tape after he arrived at the scene. "Can I get another unit?" 

At a community meeting Monday night in Center City Allentown, many people said because of the shooting, they

would like to see police officers receive more de-escalation and mental health training. 

"No crime is worthy of being shot five times in front of Ice Cream World and Dorney Park," said Jessica Ortiz,

organizer of the meeting and Allentown resident. 

About 30 people attended the forum, which centered around the shooting and what can be done in its aftermath. 

Elected officials at the meeting included Allentown School Directors Cheryl Johnson-Watts and Phoebe Harris,

Allentown Councilwoman Cynthia Mota and South Whitehall Commissioner Mark Pinsley. 

Many parents of children who are black, Hispanic or have mental health issues, said they're concerned for their

children going out in the community when they hear of shootings involving police officers. 

"I'm scared," Harris, the mother of a teenage son, said. 

No law enforcement officers attended the meeting. Mota said that while police officers aren't perfect, she believes

they try their best. Allentown business owner John Rosario also said he doesn't believe Allentown has a police

brutality problem. 

No one in attendance shared information about Santos. 

According to authorities, an officer was dispatched at 5:44 p.m. Saturday. On the 911 tape, a caller reported

"suspicious activity" in the area of Hamilton Boulevard and Lincoln Avenue. 

"Caller reported a male jumping on cars in front of Dorney Park. Hispanic male with blue shirt and shorts. Male is

bleeding from his arm," a dispatcher says. 

Broadcastify. 

County dispatchers then begin receiving 911 calls about "shots fired," according to the recording provided by

At a news conference Saturday, District Attorney Jim Martin said the Lehigh County 911 Center received multiple

calls about a man "interfering with traffic," Martin said. The man also damaged vehicles, including ripping a

window off a vehicle, he said. 

At about 5:50 p.m., a witness said the man was hanging off a police vehicle as it drove east. When the officer

pulled over, the man began banging on the windshield and the vehicle's side, the witness said. 

Video shot from a camera phone in the Comfort Suites parking lot shows the man walk away from the police

vehicle, turn around and walk back toward the officer. The officer repeatedly orders the man to "get on the ground."

The man continues to walk toward the officer. He briefly raises one open hand and lowers it. The officer fires five

shots, and the man crumples forward. 

The man does not appear to be armed with a weapon on the video. 

A call of shots fired then went out across the radio dispatch. 

The unidentified officer remains on paid leave while state police investigate the shooting, Martin has said. 

The last time someone died as a result of a police shooting in Lehigh County was in March. Authorities say 26-

year-old Aaron Ibrahem was fleeing a Walmart in Lower Macungie Township when he pointed a homemade gun at

a trooper during a foot chase. Less than two months later, Martin ruled the shooting justified. 

The scene where Santos was shot was quiet Monday. The only noises came from passing cars and the occasional

delighted screams of roller coaster riders across the highway at Dorney Park. A knot of television trucks idled in a

parking lot overlooking the highway. 

Managers at the hotels along the busy thoroughfare declined to speak with a reporter. 

Someone had tied a small bundle of flowers wrapped in purple packaging to the wooden posts in front of the

Comfort Suites hotel, but left no note. By Monday evening, many of the lavender blooms in the bouquet drooped to

the ground, wilted. 

Reporters Pamela Lehman and Sarah Wojcik contributed to this story. 

EXCERPTS FROM 911 CALL BEFORE SOUTH WHITEHALL POLICE SHOOTING 

*"I'm in front of the Comfort Suites with a possible, uh, mental issue here," the unidentified officer says. "Can I get

another unit?" 

bleeding from his arm," a dispatcher says. 

*"Caller reported a male jumping on cars in front of Dorney Park. Hispanic male with blue shirt and shorts. Male is

*County dispatchers then begin receiving 911 calls about "shots fired," the recording shows. 

Credit: By Laurie Mason Schroeder; Jacqueline Palochko - Of The Morning Call - Reporters Pamela Lehman and

Sarah Wojcik contributed to this story. 

Caption: Chronological screen shots from a video obtained by The Morning Call show the seconds leading up to

the fatal shooting of a man by a South Whitehall Township police officer on Saturday. The panels show the

progressional stages of the incident. 

leave pending the conclusion of the investigation.  

Police investigate the scene of a fatal shooting by a South Whitehall Township police officer. The officer is on paid

A small bundle of flowers was tied Monday to wooden posts near the scene of a South Whitehall Township police

shooting. An unidentified officer shot and killed 44-year-old Joseph Santos alongside the road after authorities say

Santos was interfering with traffic. 

South Whitehall Commissioner Mark Pinsley (right) speaks at a community meeting Monday night in Center City

Allentown, centered around the South Whitehall shooting. The meeting was attended by about 30 people. 

SPECIAL TO THE MORNING CALL 

JANE THERESE/SPECIAL TO THE MORNING CALL  

THE MORNING CALL 

Madeleine Cook/THE MORNING CALL 
 
 
