Family of Edmonds man shot by deputy sues sheriff' - Daily Herald, The
(Everett, WA) - June 7, 2019
June 7, 2019 | Daily Herald, The (Everett, WA)

SEAT T LE — T he family of an Edmonds man who was shot and killed last year by a Snohomish
County sheriff's deputy filed a civil lawsuit Thursday in U.S. District Court in Seattle.

T he lawsuit names Snohomish County, Sheriff T y T renary and the sheriff's office. It also
specifically names Deputy Art Wallin, who fired the bullets that killed 24-year-old Nickolas Peters
N ickolas Peters
during their October encounter east of Lynnwood. T he complaint argues that Wallin's use of
excessive force was a violation of rights laid out in the U.S. Constitution.

T he plaintiffs are seeking a jury trial and are asking for more than $5 million in damages for Peters'
death. They're being represented by Seattle-based law firm Campiche Arnold.

"It's our belief that Nick should have been arrested, not shot," attorney Jeff Campiche said at a
press briefing Thursday morning.

Mike Peters, the father of Nickolas Peters
uses deadly force.

N ickolas Peters , said he wants to see law enforcement change how it

"We can't have this happening to other people," he said. "It's ridiculous."

T he complaint raises several questions about the encounter, including whether Nickolas Peters
N ickolas Peters
was or wasn't following orders, and whether he represented any kind of threat to law
enforcement. Campiche said that deputies should have clearly seen that Peters was unarmed and
that he was not making any move to harm them.

T he shooting was investigated by the Snohomish Multi-Agency Response T eam, a task force of
detectives assigned to cases in which police have used potentially fatal force. A copy of their report
was obtained by T he Daily Herald through a public records request.

Snohomish County Prosecutor Adam Cornell, who will decide whether to bring criminal charges
against any involved deputies, said on Thursday that his office is still reviewing the SMART
investigation's results.

"T he case will be reviewed and decided like all of our cases — carefully, thoroughly, and ethically,"
Cornell wrote in an email.

Jayni Peters, shown here with her 16-year-old son, Jack Peters, on Thursday at the Campiche Arnold
law firm in Seattle, says her son, Nickolas Peters
T he Herald)

N ickolas Peters , didn't deserve to be killed. ( Zachariah Bryan /

On Oct. 23, Peters was driving a Ford F-150 with dark tinted windows with his girlfriend, Britt
Jakobsen, headed to her parents' home in Brier. When Deputy Wallin attempted to pull him over
east of Lynnwood, Peters led law enforcement on a triple-digit pursuit, according to the
investigation's documents.

Eventually, a patrol car knocked the truck off the street on Damson Road, documents say. A
deputy then rammed his car head-on into the truck, twice, to pin it against some bushes, according
to the SMART  report.

T wo deputies approached the vehicle. Wallin positioned himself at the passenger side door, while
another deputy stood on top of the truck's hood, shining a flashlight through the windshield.

Campiche said there should have been more than enough light to illuminate the inside of the truck
and give a clear view of what Peters and Jakobsen were doing.

On audio recorded by nearby witnesses, the two deputies could be heard shouting conflicting
commands, SMART  detectives wrote in their report:

"T urn it off, turn it off."

"Open the door."

"Hands up, hands up, hands up. Get your (expletive) hands up."

T he deputy on the hood told SMART  detectives he couldn't see Peters' right hand, only that the
arm was down by his waist and seat. T he deputy said that Peters did not appear to be complying
whatsoever, according to the SMART  report.

T he lawsuit contends otherwise, saying that Peters was trying to follow orders.

Sheriff's Deputy Art Wallin shot Peters twice, but only a single bullet hole can be seen in a picture of
the scene. Attorney Jeff Campiche argues that Wallin fired the fatal shot after the passenger door
was open. (Campiche Arnold)

At a press conference held by Campiche Arnold in November, Jakobsen said that she and Peters
had looked at each other and realized they couldn't follow all of the commands at once. She also
said that Peters had raised both of his hands.

Even if Peters wasn't doing exactly what the deputies said, there wasn't justification to shoot him,
Campiche said.

"In our country, you don't execute someone simply because they don't follow the officer's
commands," he said.

T he deputy on the hood said he was looking down, not at Peters, the moment that Wallin opened
fire, SMART  detectives wrote.

Wallin fired two shots. Both bullets went through Peters' right arm, according to a report by the
Snohomish County Medical Examiner. One embedded in his ribs, while the other pierced the right
lung and landed in the spine.

Campiche believes there was a space in time between the two shots.

A photo from the medical examiner, provided by the law firm, shows a single bullet hole through
the passenger side of the windshield.

Likely, Campiche said, Wallin fired the second bullet after the passenger side door was open —
unless it somehow went through the same hole.

T he picture does not provide a full view of the passenger door and whether there might be any
bullet holes in it.

T he SMART  report indicates that the passenger door wasn't opened until after the shots were
fired, and after backup units arrived.

If the door was open, Campiche surmised, Wallin should have seen that Peters was not making any
threatening moves.

A loaded .45-caliber semi-automatic pistol in a green zippered case was later found underneath the
center console, but it was likely not within Peters' reach, Campiche said.

A toxicology report reportedly came back positive for fentanyl, amphetamine and
methamphetamine, but that didn't mean Peters was dangerous, Campiche said.

T he only threat that was present was the truck itself, Campiche said, but that had been rendered
immobile.

N ickolas
"It was not necessary for Snohomish County Deputy Sheriff Wallin to shoot to kill N ickolas
Peters  to protect against imminent risk or serious physical injury," the complaint states.
Peters

In the complaint, the plaintiffs argue that the sheriff's office failed to adequately train its deputies
to avoid deadly force when it's unnecessary — despite calls from the public for police to use less
lethal alternatives.

As a result, they allege, Peters was killed.

Wallin declined to speak to SMART  detectives. He remains on paid administrative leave, sheriff's
office spokeswoman Shari Ireton said T hursday.

Speaking at the Campiche Arnold law firm, family said Peters was one to let his hugs linger.
Whenever he talked to family on the phone, he would say "I love you" before hanging up. And he
was always active, having played hockey and lacrosse all through school.

Since his death, life hasn't been the same, family said.

"Life is just harder now," his sister, Lyndsay Peters, said. "I have anxiety I never had before. I don't
enjoy things anymore that I used to …"

"T here were supposed to be so many more years to make more memories for us," she said.

Zachariah Bryan: 425-339-3431; zbryan@heraldnet.com. T witter: @zachariahtb.

Copyrig ht, 2019, The Daily Herald, Everett, WA. All Rights Reserved.

 