UPDATE: Barricade situation at Little Orleans - Cumberland Times-
News, The (MD) - January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | Cumberland Times-News, The (MD) | CUMBERLAND TIMES-NEWS, ctn@times-news.com

LIT T LE ORLEANS — A suspect was shot dead and two troopers wounded Friday following a night-
long standoff at a home in the 11000 block of High Germany Road in eastern Allegany County.

Maryland State Police said the injured troopers were flown by medevac helicopter to the R Adams
Crowley Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore.

T he suspect, William Charles M ackenzie
Hagerstown where he was pronounced dead, police said.

William Charles M ackenzie, 52, was taken to Meritus Medical Center in

T he incident began at about 11 p.m. when the suspect and his wife argued before the man
allegedly brandished a handgun. T he female victim escaped the residence and ran to a neighbor's
house for help.

T he Maryland State Police Special Tactical Assault Element responded and team members used a
loudspeaker from an armored vehicle to communicate with the suspect.

T he suspect reportedly refused to surrender and told police he was not coming out of the
residence.

T roopers attempted to contact the suspect by telephone. He failed to answer repeated calls
before the loudspeaker was used to establish communications.

Details surrounding the shooting of the suspect and the wounding of the troopers were not
immediately available.

Check back at times-news.com for updates.

BACKGROUND

UPDAT E: 9:42 a.m.: Maryland State Police confirms a suspect has been pronounced dead at the
scene.

UPDAT E 8:45 a.m.: Two police officers have been shot during a standoff at a Little Orleans Road
home.

Both officers were reportedly flown to the R Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore for
treatment of leg injuries.

Multiple fire companies are now battling a fire at the residence.

LIT T LE ORLEANS — A barricade situation continued at daylight Friday at a High Germany Road
location where law enforcement responded sometime through the night.

Maryland State Police said only that troopers were on scene. No further information was provided.

Allegany County deputies also responded to the scene along with troopers from Washington
County.

Radio communications at the scene during the incident indicated shots were fired late T hursday
night, causing a female victim to flee the residence to a neighbor's house. A man reportedly
remained inside the dwelling at that time.

Later unconfirmed reports indicated that injuries had occurred and an ambulance was dispatched
to the scene.

Check back at times-news.com. T his story will be updated as additional information becomes
available.

UPDAT E: Two police officers have been shot during a standoff at a Little Orleans Road home.
https://t.co/L8KkZKtAHy" CumberlandT imes-News (@CumberlandT N) January 26, 2018

Barricade situation at Little Orleans https://t.co/JGE3r36y4a" CumberlandT imes-News
(@CumberlandT N) January 26, 2018

V-Day Cumberland benefit readings set https://t.co/3vubjjf1gw" CumberlandT imes-News
(@CumberlandT N) January 26, 2018

Proceeds help BW athletes https://t.co/v218QgsRXJ" CumberlandT imes-News (@CumberlandT N)
January 26, 2018

Copyrig ht 2018, The Cumberland Times-News / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 