UPDATE: New details in Little Orleans trooper - Cumberland Times-
News, The (MD) - January 26, 2018
January 26, 2018 | Cumberland Times-News, The (MD) | Jeffrey Alderton, jlalderton@times-news.com

UPDAT E: LIT T LE ORLEANS — A High Germany Road man was shot dead by police Friday, shortly
after he shot two Maryland State Police troopers during an hours-long standoff at his home.

William Charles M ackenzie, 66, was taken by ambulance to Western Maryland Regional Medical
William Charles M ackenzie
Center in Cumberland where he was pronounced dead, police said.

State police spokesman Ron Snyder said Mackenzie was shot after fire broke out at the residence
around 8:30 a.m. and then pointed a handgun at approaching troopers. T he cause of that fire is
under investigation, although police initially said Mackenzie set it.

T he trooper who fired the fatal shot was placed on routine administrative leave.

T he injured troopers, who were not identified, suffered gunshot wounds to the leg and were flown
to the R Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore by Trooper 5 medevac helicopter.

Both troopers, members of the Maryland State Police Special Tactical Assault Team Element,
were treated and later released.

T hey were shot as they approached the residence from the back side of the property, Snyder said.
Mackenzie reportedly fired the shots from a bedroom window of the single-story frame home.

Other team members rescued the injured troopers, who reportedly remained conscious and alert
after they were wounded.

Snyder said it was not known if the handgun used to shoot the troopers was the same weapon
that Mackenzie pointed at troopers before he was fatally wounded.

Snyder said Mackenzie "had multiple weapons in the house."

Police said it was after 11 p.m. Thursday when Mackenzie's wife returned home and the couple
began to argue.

Mackenzie reportedly told his wife "this ends tonight" before he produced a handgun, Snyder said.
T he couple engaged in a struggle before the wife, who was not identified, was able to escape and
run through woods to take refuge at a neighbor's residence.

She was not injured.

Police were notified and a barricade situation developed with negotiators attempting to peacefully

resolve the matter, Snyder said.

Mackenzie repeatedly declined to exit the residence despite requests from state police, Snyder
said. A police loudspeaker was used to communicate with Mackenzie, who repeatedly failed to
answer police calls to his telephone.

"T hey were negotiating with him the whole time. T hey didn't stop. T hey wanted this situation to
end peacefully," Snyder said.

T he incident remains under investigation by state police.

Assistance at the scene was provided by the Cumberland Police Department and the Allegany
County Sheriff's Office.

Fire companies from Allegany, Washington and Mineral County, West Virginia, fought the blaze,
reporting it out just before 11 a.m. T he Orleans Volunteer Fire Department led the firefighting
operation. T he Maryland State Fire Marshal's Office was also at the scene.

Copyrig ht 2018, The Cumberland Times-News / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 