Lengthy standoff in Maryland ends with shooter - Free Lance-Star, The
(Fredericksburg, VA) - January 27, 2018 - page 4A
January 27, 2018 | Free Lance-Star, The (Fredericksburg, VA) | Page 4A

by the associated press

LIT T LE ORLEANS, Md.-Maryland State Police say a man who threatened his wife with a gun and
said "this ends now" was fatally shot Friday morning, resolving a lengthy standoff, after igniting a
fire and shooting at troopers who finally entered his home.

T wo state troopers were flown about 120 miles (193 kilometers) to a trauma center in Baltimore,
where they were treated for leg wounds and released. Police said William Charles M ackenzie
William Charles M ackenzie,
66, was pronounced dead at a hospital near the home in Little Orleans, in western Maryland.

A state police statement says the confrontation began late Thursday night. T he man's wife told
officers that they had been arguing when he drew a gun and threatened her. T hey struggled and
fell and the gun went off, she said. T hen she escaped to a neighbor's house and called for help.

T he police response was large, with tactical units of camouflaged and well-armed troopers
surrounding the home. T he troopers tried to communicate with Mackenzie using a loudspeaker
from an armored vehicle, but they said he refused to surrender.

T actical assault team officers finally entered the residence Friday morning. State police said
Mackenzie fired at the troopers, hitting their "lower extremities." T hey returned fire, killing him.
Police also said they believe Mackenzie ignited a fire inside the home as troopers entered. Fire
personnel and troopers put it out.

"State police were negotiating with him throughout this whole process to try to end this situation
as peacefully as possible," said Ron Snyder, a state police spokesman.

Mackenzie has had previous legal troubles. In 2014, he was charged with manufacture of a
controlled dangerous substance, conspiracy to manufacture a controlled dangerous substance
and possession of marijuana. T he charges were put on hold indefinitely and no guilty verdict was
entered.

Mackenzie's home in Baltimore was in foreclosure proceedings at one point, but he is still listed on
state property records as the owner.

Online court records show that Mackenzie accused his wife, Linda Mackenzie, of stealing from him
in 2015. She was charged with theft of $10,000 to under $100,000, 3rd-degree burglary and 4th-
degree burglary of a dwelling. Court records show prosecutors declined to move forward with the
case.

Snyder said the Maryland State Police Homicide Unit is investigating, and will provide its conclusions
to the Allegany County State's Attorney's Office for review.

© Copyrig ht 2018, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg , VA

 