
 
May 10--The suspected Walmart shoplifter shot and killed by a state trooper in March was armed with a

homemade gun assembled from parts sold on the internet, even though his criminal record barred him from buying

guns, authorities said in a report clearing the trooper of criminal liability in the incident. 

Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin said Wednesday that Trooper Brian Bird fired his service weapon nine

times at Aaron Ibrahem, 26, who died at the scene March 28 outside the Walmart in Lower Macungie Township. 

Bird fired on Ibrahem only after Ibrahem pointed and tried to fire a semi-automatic weapon at Bird during a foot

chase, authorities say. An employee at Walmart called police after spotting Ibrahem and suspecting he may be tied

to a retail theft at a Schuylkill County store. 

from a Spokane, Wash., sporting goods store. 

Ibrahem's gun was found by investigators to be .40-caliber Glock pistol assembled from parts purchased online

They included a frame that started out as an unfinished part not covered by federal gun laws, and barrel and slide

for the pistol that Ibrahem was able to buy without a background check despite a felony record that prohibited him

from possessing guns, according to Martin's report. 

Unfinished frames, often called 80 percent frames because they represent 80 percent of a working gun, must

undergo additional work with machine tools to become part of a fully functioning firearm. Until then, federal

authorities don't consider them to be a gun. 

addressed by state and federal legislation. 

Martin called the practice of selling the unfinished gun parts without scrutiny a serious loophole that should be

"Why permit the purchase of firearm parts without any scrutiny whatsoever by persons not to possess [a firearm],

which they may then easily assemble into a firearm?" Martin said in a news release about his findings. 

Regulators and advocates for gun law reform say federal authorities are powerless to stop the practice without

input from lawmakers. 

"As of right now, there is nothing we can do," said Charlene Hennessy, spokeswoman for the U.S. Bureau of

Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives in Philadelphia. "We follow the letter of the law and we enforce the law

as it is written so it is up to the lawmakers to change the law." 

Adam Skaggs, chief counsel at the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, said the sale of unfinished

firearms is feeding a growing black market for weapons sought by people who are not able to legally buy guns, or

who live in places like California, where tougher gun laws make them illegal to own. 

"Because the guns don't have serial numbers, because they can't be traced, this is the gun trafficker's best friend,"

Skaggs said. 

He called the police shooting of Ibrahem a tragedy narrowly averted and noted that so-called ghost guns were

used in the 2013 Santa Monica shooting rampage where a 23-year-old man killed his father and three people at a

community college using a rifle he built himself, and in 2017 in Tehama County, Calif., where a 44-year-old man

killed his wife and then opened fire on cars, houses and an elementary school. 

In suburban Philadelphia, police discovered an exchange student who allegedly threatened to shoot up the

Catholic high school he was attending obtained a Glock pistol by buying the parts online, according to published

reports. 

Joshua Prince, a Berks County attorney who specializes in gun law, said, however, that in Ibrahem's case the blame

is improperly placed on unfinished gun parts. He called Martin's call for legislation to require background checks

political grandstanding and said any law to restrict unfinished gun parts would lead to confusion over what exactly

constitutes an unfinished gun. 

"A hunk of aluminum could become a gun or it could become bicycle handlebars," he said. 

It's unclear how Ibrahem came into possession of the gun's lower portion, or frame, which was sold days before

the Lehigh County shooting to a person in Texas, Martin's report says. But it is clear that the frame, at that point,

was altered so it could be fitted with parts to make it a functional firearm and thus was subject to federal firearms

laws when sold to the person in Texas, the report says. For that reason the focus should be on how Ibrahem

obtained it, Prince said. 

(Frank Warner) 

He added that whoever sold Ibrahem the frame could face federal charges for improperly transferring a gun. 

State police investigate a man's death that followed gunfire Wednesday night at the Walmart in Lower Macungie

Township. A trooper was pursuing the man on foot just before shots were fired, witnesses said. 

Martin said he would forward his findings to federal and state legislators in hopes of "corrective legislation." 

"It is not my intent to burden people who may legally possess firearms," Martin said. "However, requiring the filing

of an ATF form for all the parts of a semi-automatic pistol does not seem to me to be too bothersome." 

------ 

ABOUT IBRAHEM'S WEAPON 

10 cartridges. 

From the Lehigh County district attorney office's report on the shooting: 

Ibrahem's Glock semi-automatic pistol had no serial number on the frame. It had one magazine with a capacity for

Only the lower polymer portion of the gun -- without any upper and trigger parts -- was purchased from the Spokane

Archery in Washington by a person from Texas. The purchase was legal. 

The slide/barrel of the gun, known as "uppers," can be purchased on the internet and no ATF form is required

The gun can then be completed by drilling holes to attach the slide/barrel, trigger and other necessary parts. After

because it is not considered to be a firearm. 

assembly, it is a functional semi-automatic pistol. 

------ 

pamela.lehman@mcall.com 

610-820-6790 

CREDIT: By Peter Hall and Pamela Lehman 
 
 
