
 
A man who was fatally shot by a New Hampshire State Police trooper Saturday allegedly had a gun in his hand

when he was killed, according to the New Hampshire attorney general. 

In a statement, the attorney general's office identified the victim Sunday as Walter Welch, Jr., 40. His place-of-

residence was not immediately available. 

on administrative leave, per department policy. 

Welch was shot during a traffic stop off Route 101 in Epping, according to the statement. The trooper has been put

At about 6:43 p.m., State Police dispatch received a 911 call reporting an erratic driver driving a white pickup truck

westbound on the state highway, according to the statement. Shortly before 7 p.m., a trooper stopped the truck on

Beede Road, off Exit 6 in Epping. 

“An encounter ensued" after the trooper approached the car, the attorney general's office said in the statement.

“During the encounter, the Trooper discharged his weapon." 

Welch, who was the sole occupant of the truck, was declared dead on the scene and was allegedly found holding a

gun, according to the statement. An autopsy is scheduled for Monday.  

The trooper was evaluated at a local hospital but was not injured in the incident. . The trooper's name is not being

released until after his interview, which is expected next week, the attorney general's office said.  

The incident is under investigation. 

3636. 

State Police asked any witnesses to contact New Hampshire State Police Sergeant William Bright at 603-271-

The Epping incident marked the third police-involved shooting in New Hampshire this year, and the second

involving State Police, assistant attorney general John J. Kennedy said in an e-mail.  

In June, a 29-year-old man was shot by a Nashua police officer and survived, the Globe reported. Last month,

another man was killed in a shootout with local and State Police in Rochester. 

Lucas Phillips can be reached at lucas.phillips@globe.com. 

Credit: By Lucas Phillips Globe Correspondent 
 
 
