Chicago officer fatally shoots suspect who had - Associated Press State
Wire: Illinois (IL) - June 7, 2018
June 7, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Illinois (IL)

CHICAGO (AP) — A Chicago police officer fatally shot a 24-year-old man who authorities said
pulled a gun while running away, prompting questions from the man's family about why the
encounter turned deadly.

Sgt. Rocco Ailoto said the "armed confrontation" occurred around 8:10 p.m. Wednesday in the
Bronzeville neighborhood on the city's South Side as officers conducted a narcotics investigation.
He said the suspect fled on foot when officers approached. T he man was taken to University of
Chicago Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability and the Cook County medical examiner's office identified
him as Maurice Granton

M aurice Granton Jr.

Granton's sister, Joanna Varnado, asked: "Since when does running validate somebody getting
shot?"

At the hospital, police and security officers blocked people from getting inside as tensions flared.
Some yelled at police and hospital staff.

Police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi tweeted that police recovered the suspect's gun. He added
that an officer may have broken an ankle during the confrontation. In a later statement, police said
a sergeant was taken to a hospital for treatment of an injury sustained during the pursuit.

T he Chicago Tribune reports that Granton's family expressed doubts that the gun belonged to the
father of two young daughters.

"I just want to know what the real story is," Varnado said. "If it was misconduct, I want justice. My
brother was 24 years old. He loved his girls. T hat's all he lived for, was his kids."

Police haven't said how many shots were fired. An autopsy was planned. Ailoto said the officer has
been placed on 30-day administrative leave in line with department policy.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability was investigating.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 