Video released in fatal Chicago shooting - Breeze-Courier, The
(Taylorville, IL) - July 26, 2018
July 26, 2018 | Breeze-Courier, The (Taylorville, IL)

CHICAGO (AP) &mdash; A Chicago investigative agency released body-camera video Wednesday
showing the fatal police shooting of a 24-year-old man who family lawyers say was unarmed at
the moment he was shot in the back.

M aurice Granton Jr. grabs the top of a

One officer fired from a sidewalk on June 6 just as Maurice Granton
wrought-fence around a vacant lot to pull himself over. He falls, writhing on the ground, seemingly
unable to move his legs. An autopsy later revealed he was shot in the back. Officers earlier that
evening tried to question Granton as part of a drug investigation, but he fled, authorities have said.
Police said they recovered a gun Granton had been carrying and that there&rsquo;s evidence it had
been fired before he reached the fence. &nbsp; T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability, or
COPA, which investigates police shootings, posted the video on its website Wednesday. Other
video showing officers chasing Granton earlier are also included, as is radio traffic between
officers. &nbsp; T here&rsquo;s no sound for the first 30 seconds of the video of the shooting.
When the sound comes on, the officer keeps his gun trained on Granton and tells another officer
there&rsquo;s a weapon on the ground some 20 feet away. &ldquo;Go get the weapon. Get the
weapon,&rdquo; he says. Minutes later, a crowd can be seen beginning to gather in the Bronzeville
neighborhood on the city&rsquo;s South Side, some people yelling at police and others frantically
calling Granton&rsquo;s name.

Family attorney Andrew M. Stroth argued the video showing the shooting contradicts the initial
police narrative that there was an armed confrontation right before the shooting.

&ldquo;It shows an unarmed black man running away from police, and police don&rsquo;t have a
right to shoot and kill in that situation,&rdquo; Stroth said.&nbsp; &ldquo;We continue to have
young black men unjustifiably shot by police. When is it going to stop?&rdquo; T he police
department issued a brief statement later Wednesday saying it is &ldquo;fully cooperating&rdquo;
with the investigation of the shooting.

Chicago has a troubled history of police shootings. T he city erupted in protest in 2015 after the
release of a video showing white police officer Jason Van Dyke shooting black 17-year-old Laquan
McDonald 16 times in 2014. Van Dyke was charged with murder.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Breeze-Courier, The (Taylorville, IL), All Rights Reserved

 