In wake of Granton shooting, family joins - Chicago Sun-Times (IL) -
June 12, 2018
June 12, 2018 | Chicago Sun-Times (IL) | Yvonne Kim | For the Sun-Times

Amid Mayor Rahm Emanuel’s plans to funnel $95 million into improving training for Chicago police,
student activists were joined by Parkland shooting survivors and family members of a recent
shooting victim in protesting gun violence at a press conference Monday.

About 20 student members of anti-violence organizations Good Kids Mad City and March for Our
Lives Chicago gathered at City Hall to speak against proposed plans for a new police training
academy on the West Side — a movement branded on social media as “# NoCopAcademy.”

Willie Round, a local musician and student mentor, called the proposed academy a "slap to our face
and to our communities."

T he money “should be invested into our communities and invested into our children," Round said,
adding that it would be much better directed toward schools being shut down and overpopulated in
the same area. "If this mayor really wanted to help us, the $95 million would be directed
somewhere else," he said.

Alex Wind (left) and Sofie Whitney, from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, spoke at a press
conference at City Hall. | Rick Majewski/For the Sun-T imes

T he press conference followed the fatal shooting of 24-year-old Maurice Granton
foot chase in Bronzeville on Wednesday.

M aurice Granton Jr. during a

After Chicago police officials said Granton had pulled a gun during a narcotics investigation, family
members claimed they did not believe he was armed. T he day after the shooting, CPD spokesman
Anthony Guglielmi tweeted a surveillance video that he said shows Granton was holding a semi-
automatic handgun.

At the press conference, family members affirmed their earlier statements that they believe
Granton was unarmed.

"We know he wasn't armed because he wasn't that kind of man," said Latayshia Shaw, mother of
Granton's two children. "He has a reason to come home. So why would he want to risk his life
when he has two young kids to raise?"

Shaw described Granton as a "terrific father" and a "family man."

T wo students from Parkland, Florida, where 17 students were killed in a shooting earlier this year at
Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, also joined the chorus of opposition against gun violence.

"On February 14, 17 people died at our school, but what happened at our school is not unique," Alex
Wind said. "Because February 14 is an everyday problem in this city."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Sun-Times Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

 