Family looks for answers in CPD officer’s fatal - Chicago Sun-Times (IL) -
June 8, 2018
June 8, 2018 | Chicago Sun-Times (IL) | Mitchell Armentrout

A day after after a Chicago police officer fatally shot Maurice Granton
Bronzeville foot chase, loved ones gathered to remember the slain man — and to question why he
was killed.

M aurice Granton Jr. in the back during a

"He was running away," Granton's sister Joanna Varnado before about 100 people gathered
T hursday evening for a vigil at the shooting scene near 47th Street and Prairie. "Why is it OK for a
police officer to shoot someone who is running away?"

Click to view slideshow.

But Chicago police officials say Granton pulled a gun on tactical officers who were trying to stop
him during a narcotics investigation about 8:15 p.m. Wednesday in the 300 block of West 47th
Street. One officer opened fire during an "armed encounter" after Granton pulled a gun, according
to a police statement.

Granton died at the University of Chicago Medicine trauma center within the hour. T he Cook
County medical examiner's office ruled Thursday that he suffered a fatal gunshot wound to the
back.

Shortly after the shooting, CPD spokesman Anthony Guglielmi tweeted a photo of a gun allegedly
recovered from Granton at the scene, and on Thursday — "in response to claims that offender
was unarmed and the weapon was planted by CPD officers" — Guglielmi took the unusual step of
releasing surveillance video purporting to show Granton handling the gun prior to the police
encounter.

UPDAT E; Video prior to last night's officer involved shooting shows offender holding what turned
out to be a semi automatic handgun that was later recovered by officers.
pic.twitter.com/6nT I90CFsm

— Anthony Guglielmi (@AJGuglielmi) June 7, 2018

Officers recovered a gun at the scene of a police-involved shooting Wednesday in Bronzeville,
according to a police spokesman. | Anthony Guglielmi/T witter

Still, relatives, friends and neighborhood residents have questioned that narrative, leading to tense
confrontations with officers in the shooting’s aftermath, and skepticism at Thursday’s vigil.

“I want justice for my brother,” Varnado said.

M aurice Granton | Facebook photo
M aurice Granton

Family members said they don’t believe Granton had a gun, and they claimed the officer fired 12
rounds — because he was “mad” because a sergeant had hurt his ankle during the chase — hitting
Granton at least six times.

T he Civilian Office of Police Accountability, which investigates shootings by officers, said the officer
fired three times, and that the agency will release body-camera footage within 60 days.

Granton, a father of two young daughters, previously had been convicted of robbery and theft,
court records show. Family members and friends described him as a loving person.

"He was silly, goofy, fun," Varnado said. "He cared about his family. Everything was about family."

T he officer who opened fire is on desk duty for 30 days, per CPD policy.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Sun-Times Media, LLC. All rights reserved.

 