WINDY CITY TIMES

June 13, 2018

13

Youth activists hold press 
conference on gun 
violence in Chicago

BY CARRIE MAXWELL 

Youth activists from Good Kids Mad City (GKMC), 
No Cop Academy Campaign, March4OurLives Chi-
cago, The VOYCE Project and Assata’s Daughters 
held a press conference to address the recent po-
lice shooting of Maurice Granton Jr. as well as the 
gun violence that occurs across Chicago June 11 
near Mayor Rahm Emanuel’s office at City Hall.
  Joanna  Barnado  (Maurice’s  sister);  his  two 
young  children’s  mother;  Latayhia  Shaw;  and 
Marjory  Stoneman  Douglas  High  School  (Park-
land, Florida) activists Alex Wind and Sofie Whit-
ney were also in attendance.
  Ahead of the press conference, youth activists 
held up signs of Black people killed by police offi-
cers in Chicago in recent years; the signs included 
their  birth  and  death  dates.  They  also  chanted 
“No Cop Academy, 95 million for the community,” 
spoke  about  the  power  of  the  people  to  make 
positive change and called on Chicagoans to vote 
Emanuel out of office in 2019.
  GKMC’s  Alycia  Moatoa,  Damayanti  Wallace, 
Madison Miller, Jonathan Williams and Taylor Nor-
wood read poems addressing police violence, No 
Cop Academy and Emanuel as well as the need to 

invest in underserved communities on Chicago’s 
South and West sides.
  March4OurLives  Chicago  member  Juan  Reyes 
(who  also  translated  his  remarks  into  Spanish) 
said Emanuel and the city council do not repre-
sent the youth, especially those on the South and 
West sides. He explained that the proposed $95 
million  cop  academy  is  an  example  of  decades 
of systemic oppression that is happening to the 
youth in marginalized neighborhoods across the 
city.  Reyes  noted  that  positive  change  is  only 
going  to  happen  when  the  way  the  city  is  run 
changes  to  help  every  Chicago  citizen  live  and 
thrive anywhere they reside.
  March4OurLives Chicago member Jeremy Liskar 
explained  that  their  organization  is  working  in 
coordination  with  GKMC  and  No  Cop  Academy 
Campaign to address these issues. Natalie Daskal 
from March4OurLives Chicago was also in atten-
dance.
  VOYCE  and  GKMC  leader  Amina  Henderson-
Redwan said the people in her community have 
experienced  the  school-to-prison  pipeline  and 
violence first-hand. She explained that when she 
was nine years old she watched her father die—
and that was not the only time she lost love ones 

 

 

B
a
s
e
p
h
o
t
o
c
o
u
r
t
e
s
y
 
o
f
 
E
m

i
l

y
 
B
e
r
g
e
r

Youth activists from Good Kids Mad City (GKMC), No Cop Academy Campaign, March4OurLives 
Chicago, The VOYCE Project and Assata’s Daughters.  
Photo by Carrie Maxwell

due to gun violence. 
  Henderson-Redwan  noted  that  when  mass 
shootings  happen  at  schools  those  individuals 
get media attention but not young people across 
the  country,  including  Chicago,  who  experience 
gun violence as they go about their daily lives—
she  said  that  has  to  change.  She  said  safety 
means “getting to the root causes” of this violent 
behavior, not pouring money into school security 
guards  and/or  police,  metal  detectors,  arming 
teachers and building new cop academies.
  Wallace asked why Emanuel does not care when 
people  in  neighborhoods  like  hers,  Woodlawn, 
get shot. She said the people in City Hall do not 
care,  and  that  extends  to  certain  parts  of  Chi-
cago that do not experience gun violence every 
day. Wallace noted that the $95 million could be 
spent  on  mental-health  centers  and  school  im-
provements.

  Moatoa explained that this proposed cop acad-
emy will be located in an area where four Chicago 
public elementary schools have been shut down, 
resulting in a situation in which there are now 30 
students  per  teacher  at  the  remaining  schools. 
She said it is not safe for any young person, espe-
cially Black and Brown youth, in the schools with 
armed police officers. Moatoa noted the solidarity 
from March4OurLives Chicago and Parkland activ-
ists who were in attendance.
  Assata’s  Daughters  and  No  Cop  Academy  Cam-
paign member Nita Tennyson said the cop acad-
emy will have resources the schools do not have 
such as art classes. She said more police officers 
will not help the city address gun violence.
  North Lawndale resident and Live Free Chicago 
activist  Willie  Round  spoke  about  the  need  for 

Turn to page 18

“One of the top hottest 
food cities ...” – Zagat

The  D  is  a  growing  foodie  mecca,  where 
fabulous meals go from farm to table in just 
a  few  miles.  Whet  your  appetite  on  vegan 
specialties,  unique 
international  cuisine, 
independent  coffee  shops  and  distinctive 
distilleries. Whatever you might be craving, 
it’s time to get a taste of Detroit.

18

June 13, 2018

WINDY CITY TIMES

Photos by Vern Hester

‘OUT of the Office’ benefits 
Affinity, Chicago House

BY VERN HESTER

On June 6, the 17th iteration of the Pride networking party “OUT of the Office” took place in the rooftop 
lounge of The I/O Godfrey Hotel. 
  The event, through its long history, has remained true to its focus of creating an atmosphere for LGBTQ 
individuals in the business and corporate sector to network and meet while benefiting a worthy causes. 
This year’s beneficiaries were Chicago House and Affinity Chicago. (Previous beneficiaries have included 
Gay Games Chicago, Legacy Chicago, Transworks, The AIDS Walk and Run, The LGBTQ Chamber of Com-
merce and Open Hand Food Pantry.)
  Event creator Andrew Hayes of Fifth Third Bank said in a previous press release, “As you know, 17 years 
ago was a different time for us and the event has been credited with connecting many people together 
who have gone on to enjoy business.” 
  For all the joy and socializing that took place, the event’s focus was squarely on the LGBTQ commu-
nity, with many well-known community activists and leaders, media personalities, corporate business 
individuals, small-business owners, and supporters and allies in attendance.  
  Dreamtown Realty sponsored the event, while Hayes, Mika Stambaugh of TMI, and Brad Edwards of 
CBS 2 Chicago chaired. Sandi Robinson of The Godfrey Hotel, and Sam Powell and Christina Pinson of 
Dreamtown Realty planned “OUT of the Office.”  
  Anthony  Gutierrez,  the  senior  program  director  of  Chicago  House,  and  Imani  Rupert-Gordon  of  Af-
finity Community Services each spoke briefly about the work their respective organizations do for the 
community. Among the many raffle prizes offered were two tickets to The House of Blues Gospel Sunday 
Brunch, two nights at The I/O Godfrey, tickets to a White Sox game, a wine-and-vodka selection and a 
mystery prize titled “Luck be A Lady.”

YOUTH from page 13

community and school resources and investments 
to help West and South side residents thrive in-
stead of what he said was the “unnecessary” $95 
million cop academy.
  Wind said what happened at his school Feb. 14 
happens every day in Chicago, adding that Chi-
cago  youth  need  to  be  heard.  Wind  noted  that 
Black  students  get  suspended  at  a  rate  three 
times higher than white students and that needs 
to be fixed—and that will not happen with a new 
police academy.
  Whitney noted that Chicago youth want to feel 
safe  and  that  is  something  everyone  can  agree 
on. She said their voices are not being heard and 
that is not fair. Whitney said the only way these 
problems  are  going  to  be  fixed  is  by  providing 
schools  and  students  with  the  resources  they 
need so they can have a safe childhood and good 
life.
  Community activist and GKMC mentor Kofi Ade-
mola  was  at  the  press  conference  with  Maurice 
Granton’s family. He said there is a “crisis in our 
community” and police do not make people safer. 

Ademola  explained  that  police  shot  and  killed 
Granton last week and when a vigil was held the 
next  day  another  person  was  shot  in  his  com-
munity. He said listening to young people is the 
best  way  to  achieve  positive  change  for  every 
community in Chicago.
  Barnado,  fighting  back  tears,  spoke  about 
wanting justice for her brother and said the fam-
ily had just left the funeral home where they were 
picking  out  his  casket.  She  said  he  was  a  good 
person  and  she  never  thought  she  would  be  in 
this position where she is demanding answers as 
to why her brother was killed by the police.
  “He was murdered in cold blood,” Barnado al-
leged.
  Shaw said Granton was a great father and did 
everything for his kids.
  During the Q&A session, a reporter asked Wind 
and  Whitney  to  weigh  in  about  being  allies  of 
the  No  Cop  Academy  movement.  This  prompted 
a response from a number of the Chicago activ-
ist speakers who criticized that question, saying 
reporters should be asking about what happened 
to Granton and others affected by gun violence in 
Chicago.

Activism meet-ups,  
personal book recommendations,  
weekly events, Kids Storytime, and more!  
There are so many reasons to support  
Chicago’s only feminist bookstore.

Reproduced with permission of copyright owner. Further reproduction prohibited without permission.

 