Police shooting victim's mental illness prompts - Associated Press State
Wire: Utah (UT) - April 21, 2018
April 21, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Utah (UT)

SALT  LAKE CIT Y (AP) — A man killed in a police shooting in suburban Salt Lake City had previous
run-ins with law enforcement and claimed to have mental illness, prompting concerns Friday from
a Black Lives Matter activist that police acted too aggressively.

Officials with the Salt Lake City and Unified police departments said Friday that they had several
encounters with Lonnie Marcel B owen
Lonnie Marcel B owen, 41, before he was killed following a reported hostage
incident on Tuesday morning. None of the previous contacts were serious or violent, the
spokespeople said.

Police reports obtained by the Deseret News show that Bowen had previously told police he was
bipolar and abused methamphetamines. During one incident in March, authorities involuntarily
committed him to a psychiatric exam and he was "very cooperative" throughout that process.

Based on that information, police should have been more cautious and less quick to start shooting,
Black Lives Matter activist Lex Scott told T he Associated Press.

"Instead of seeing that person could have some mental health issues and was disturbed and
needed some de-escalation, obviously they pulled the trigger and he's dead," Scott said. "T hey did
not try to de-escalate the situation. T hey did not bring in a mental health counselor."

T he shooting is being investigated by the Salt Lake City Police Department.

Bowen was killed early Tuesday after police responded to a 911 call saying a man threatened to
stab an unidentified woman and asked to speak with a hostage negotiator.

Officers pursued a truck through West Valley City and into Magna, where police used tire spikes to
bring it to a halt.

One officer then approached the vehicle and fired inside, killing Bowen. Police spokespeople would
not comment on what led the officer to fire inside the vehicle.

Bowen's death was one of three fatal shootings by Utah police in April.

___

Information from: Deseret News, http://www.deseretnews.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 