Unified police shoot, kill man in truck after - Deseret News, The (Salt
Lake City, UT) - April 18, 2018
April 18, 2018 | Deseret News, The (Salt Lake City, UT) | Pat Reavy Deseret News

By Pat Reavy

Deseret News

MAGNA - A Salt Lake man was shot and killed by police early T uesday, just two days after posting
several videos on Facebook saying police were out to kill him.

Lonnie Marcel B owen
Lonnie Marcel B owen, 41, of Salt Lake City, was shot by a Unified police officer following a wild
series of events that included a 911 call from a man threatening to stab a woman and a chase.

T he incident began about 3 a.m. when emergency dispatchers received a call from an "agitated"
man who said, "T ell your officers to back off, or I will shove this knife through her throat," said
Unified Police Lt. Brian Lohrke.

T he man also requested to speak to a hostage negotiator, he said.

At that time, however, police were not on the scene of any incident.

Lohrke said it is possible that the man who made the 911 call was the one who was later shot, but
that had not been confirmed T uesday.

Police didn't initially know if the call was legitimate, but they "pinged" the cellphone the call was
made from, and two officers went to an apartment complex near 3600 South and 900 East. T he
only activity the officers saw was a pickup truck leaving the area. At that time, the officers did not
see any suspicious activity within the truck, Lohrke said. T he officers, however, wrote down the
license plate number as a precaution.

When they looked up information about the license plate, officers learned either the vehicle or the
registered owner had been connected to criminal activity in the past, Lohrke said. At that point, the
officers put out an alert to all agencies to be on the lookout for the truck.

Meanwhile, West Valley police may have also received a similar call from a man threatening a
woman, Lohrke said. T hey were put on alert to look for the pickup truck and spotted it near 5600
West and 3100 South, he said.

T he ensuing chase ended near the intersection of 2700 South and 8400 West about 4:15 a.m.
after West Valley police successfully spiked the tires on the truck, Lohrke said. One patrol car
stopped in front of the pickup truck and the other parked behind it.

A Unified police officer who arrived at the scene got out of his car and approached the vehicle.
When he got there, he saw something that prompted him to fire at least one shot, but
investigators did not elaborate on what that was.

A woman who was also in the truck, possibly being held hostage, suffered minor injuries and was
treated at a hospital. T hose undisclosed injuries, Lohrke said, happened before the shooting and
were inflicted by Bowen.

Bowen had a lengthy criminal history, according to court records, including a conviction for
attempted murder in 1996, and he spent time in the Utah State Prison. He was most recently
released from prison in January.

On his Facebook page, which was created just a couple of weeks ago, the final posts on the page
are four livestream videos all recorded between 4 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. Sunday. Police confirmed
T uesday the man in the videos was Bowen.

In the recordings, Bowen is talking while driving, and suggests that he is going to be killed by either
Salt Lake police or the Ogden Metro Strike Force.

"Salt Lake PD are killers. And they are responsible for anything that happens to me death-wise.
T hey want to kill me," he said. "T hey want me dead, for whatever reason, they want me dead."

Bowen contends the police will make his death look like criminal activity was involved.

"I'm putting this video out there so the world knows who is responsible for my death," he
continued. "I know they're gunning for me. I know they waiting for me."

In his videos, Bowen also talks about his gang affiliation and how his gang is like his family. He also
discusses snitches and says people who are caught doing a crime should be man enough to do the
time.

Salt Lake police reported having three interactions with Bowen in the past month, including one
within the past week. None of the interactions resulted in an arrest and none would be classified as
negative, said Salt Lake Police Sgt. Brandon Shearer.

One of those interactions was for a mental health issue, he said.

Email: preavy@deseretnews.com

T witter: DNewsCrimeT eam

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Deseret News Publishing  Company

 