Man killed by Utah police on Tuesday had posted - Salt Lake Tribune,
The (UT) - April 17, 2018
April 17, 2018 | Salt Lake Tribune, The (UT)

A Unified Police Department officer shot and killed a man in Magna who was allegedly holding a
woman hostage in his truck early Tuesday morning.

T he man who was shot was identified as 41-year-old Lonnie Marcel B owen

Lonnie Marcel Bowen of Salt Lake City.

T he shooting occurred about 4:15 a.m., near the intersection of 2700 South and 8400 West,
according to a tweet from the Unified Police Department (UPD).

Events leading to the shooting began a little after 3 a.m., said Unified police Lt. Brian Lohrke. At
that time, an agitated man called dispatchers and said he was holding a woman hostage in a
vehicle.

"T ell your officers to back off, or I will shove this knife through her throat," the man told a 911
dispatcher, according to a UPD news release.

T he man also requested to speak to a hostage negotiator, and the call was transferred the UPD
dispatch center.

Not knowing who made the call, or whether the threat was legitimate, and having no officers in the
vicinity, UPD Millcreek officers were dispatched to the area of 3700 South and 900 East — a
location gleaned from a phone ping.

Officers did not notice anything out of the ordinary, other than a truck leaving the area. Police got
the license plate of the truck before it left, the news release said.

At about 4 a.m. UPD received information that West Valley City police were in pursuit of the same
truck.

T he chase started at about 5600 West and 3100 South, continuing west through West Valley City
and into Magna. During the pursuit through Magna, West Valley City officers deployed tire spikes
to disable the truck and it eventually came to a stop about 2750 South and 8400 West.

A UPD officer who arrived to assist approached the vehicle and fired at the man inside the cab of
the truck. Despite medical aid, the news release said, the man died at the scene.

T he female who was inside the truck was not struck by gunfire. She was taken to nearby hospital
and treated for injuries allegedly inflicted upon her by the male suspect.

Hours after the shooting, Salt Lake County Sheriff Rosie Rivera said it did not appear that officers

from West Valley City fired shots.

Citing an ongoing investigation, Rivera declined to release details about how many shots were
fired, the exact nature of the woman's injuries, whether the deceased man had a weapon on him
and who was driving the truck.

KUT V footage from the scene showed the truck's driver side window with a large hole in its center.

An outside agency, Salt Lake City Police Department, was leading the investigation, as is protocol
for Salt Lake Valley law enforcers' fatal use of force.

T wo days before his death, Bowen apparently posted videos to a Facebook page he appears to
share with a woman, saying police want him dead. Lohrke said authorities believe the man in the
video is Bowen.

In the videos, Bowen is driving, telling viewers that "T he Salt Lake PD are killers, and they
responsible for anything that happens to me death-wise. T hey want to kill me."

(Warning: T his video contains coarse language.)

Bowen, who is black, says in the footage that he doesn't know why police want to kill him, and he
alludes to an apparent affiliation with a gang, but he says he isn't "hostile in any kind of manner"
and isn't armed. When he dies, he says in a video, "crooked" police will try to cover it up.

"I'm just putting this video out there, just so the world knows who's responsible for my death,"
Bowen says.

Lohrke said he forwarded the videos to Salt Lake City police. He said he didn't know whether a
woman photographed with Bowen on the Facebook account is the woman he was with when he
was killed Tuesday .

Salt Lake City police had come in contact with Bowen about three times in the past month, with the
most recent interaction occurring about a week ago, Sgt. Brandon Shearer said.

Police confronted Bowen during calls about trespassing, mental health and assault. None of the
interactions ended with an arrest, and Shearer said he wouldn't classify any of them as "negative."

Shearer said he didn't know why Bowen would post the videos.

Lohrke said Unified police had been in contact with Bowen in Magna about a month ago.

Bowen has a criminal history stretching back 20 years. It includes several drug-related convictions
and an attempted-murder conviction — cases in which he went to prison at least four times,
according to Utah court records.

Most of the cases occurred in Millard County.

Bowen was most recently released from the Utah State Prison on Jan. 9, after completing a one-
to-15-year term for possession of a controlled substance in a drug-free zone, according to Utah
Board of Pardons officials.

In the attempted-murder case, a then-20-year-old Bowen pleaded guilty to stabbing a 60-year-old
man in his Delta apartment twice in the back and once in the neck with a steak knife in June 1996.
T he man recovered from his wounds, according to a news story from the time.

Bowen is the second black man killed by Utah police this month. West Valley City police shot Elijah
James Smith in the garage of a home on April 8. T hey say he had broken into the house after
robbing a store.

Copyrig ht Huntsman Family Investments, Salt Lake Tribune 2018. All Rights Reserved.

 