
 
1:00 p.m. update: Family members have identified a 21-year-old man who was shot and killed by Austin police early

Friday as Aquantis Givens, a rapper from Baton Rouge, Louisiana who was performing on Sixth Street before he

was killed. 

getting ready for work. 

shots being fired. 

Sheldon Givens, the victim’s father, said he learned about his son’s death early Friday on social media as he was

“Everyone is taking it hard right now,” Givens’ cousin, Darren Bourgeois, who is a police officer in White Castle,

Louisiana, said by phone. “It wasn't something we were expecting to wake up to.” 

Police said they were called at around 1 a.m. to an alleyway behind the Terminal 6 bar on Sixth Street for reports of

When they arrived, they heard gunshots and took up positions near the alley behind the bar, then saw a man

running toward them with a gun, officials said. 

Assistant Police Chief Troy Gay said officers gave multiple commands for the man to drop the weapon before eight

officers opened fire. A ninth officer also fired a stun gun at Givens, police said. 

Givens was taken to the hospital, where he died shortly after. 

Earlier in the night, police said they had been called to the same bar for a fight that was happening out front during

a back to school rap concert. 

Family members say Givens was one of the rappers performing, and described him as an up-and-comer who came

to Texas to promote himself. They did not know with whom he was fighting. 

“I tried to stop him from going out there, he still wanted to go,” said Sheldon Givens, who last talked to his son on

Monday to wish him a happy 21st birthday. “I had a funny feeling, like something bad was going to happen.” 

Givens leaves behind a 3-year-old daughter. 

Bourgeois said Givens had a great personality, was smart and loved his family 

“He wasn't really no trouble maker like that,” Bourgeois said. “He would give you the shirt off his back.” 

Bourgeois said he did not want to comment on the nature of his cousin’s shooting. 

“I have to see the video,” he said. 

Assistant Chief Troy Gay said police opened fire on the man behind the Terminal 6 bar in the 600 block of Trinity

Street shortly after 1 a.m. after he ran toward them with a gun. 

A ninth officer also fired a Taser at the man, police said. 

Police identified the victim on Friday morning as a black man, but would not publicly name him. 

Gay said police started receiving calls around 12:21 a.m. about fights at the club, 302 East Sixth Street, where a

concert was taking place Thursday night. 

He said officers and the fire marshal responded to those incidents, but no one was hurt. 

Shortly after 1 a.m., police started receiving several calls about shots being fired in the area, Gay said. 

Police public safety cameras captured footage of an altercation that was happening in the alley behind the club,

where Gay said two people with firearms could be seen firing their weapons at each other multiple times. 

Officers who were nearby on Sixth Street responded, and hearing shots being fired, positioned themselves at the

end of the alley, Gay said. 

“At that point they saw an individual that was running toward them in an eastbound direction with a handgun in his

right hand,” Gay said. “The officers gave the individual multiple commands.” 

Gay said eight officers fired their weapons, including one who fired a Taser, and the man fell to the ground. They

then performed life-saving measures until Austin-Travis County EMS medics arrived to take him to the hospital. He

was pronounced dead at 1:22 a.m. 

A gun was recovered at the scene of the shooting, but Gay said no one else was taken into custody. He said people

scattered amid the gunfire, and asked anyone with information to contact homicide detectives at 512-974-5210. 

“Tonight was a very dynamic situation, which involved video footage from multiple cameras,” Gay said. “This is

going to take a long time for our investigators to go through our public safety videos, as well as videos of all the

officers.” 

The eight officers who fired their weapons have been placed on administrative leave, which is standard Austin

police protocol. They range in service from one to six years, Gay said. 

Internal affairs investigators will conduct an administrative investigation, along with a concurrent criminal

investigation by the special investigations unit and the Travis County District Attorney’s office. 

“As with any officer-involved shooting, it is a very tragic situation. It is a very sad day for our city,” Gay said. “We

have lost an individual, 21 years of age, but we also had officers that were involved in a critical incident. So our

hearts go out to our officers, they go out to our community and the individual’s families.” 

The deadly encounter marked the eighth Austin police shooting in 2018, and the second in August: 

* The first happened Jan. 26 when an officer shot and killed Christopher Eric Giles, of Albuquerque, N.M., while

responding to a home invasion in Central Austin. 

* On Feb. 19, police shot and killed 23-year-old Thomas Vincent Alvarez after he reportedly led officers on a chase

in Southeast Austin that ended in an apartment complex in the 4900 block of Edge Creek Drive, near the Onion

Creek Greenbelt. 

Springdale Road in East Austin. 

* Victor Ancira, 46, was shot by officers March 7 while holding a pickax in the 4800 block of Tanney Street, near

* On March 12, Kyle Thomas Garcia, 24, was wounded during an exchange of gunfire with Austin police in the 6200

block of La Naranja Lane. Police initially responded to the home in Southwest Austin after receiving a call from a

woman who said her son was threatening his father with a gun. 

* On March 25, police in Southeast Austin shot and killed a man who had earlier fired at officers, wounding one. 

* On June 7, police fatally shot a woman inside a Southeast Austin home in the 7300 block of South Glenn Street

after getting a call about a woman chasing people with a knife. 

* On Aug. 3, officers wounded 27-year-old Craig Anthony Carter at Spicewood Springs Road and Mesa Drive after a

chase through Northwest Austin. Police said Carter assaulted his mother earlier in the morning, and fired at

officers when they moved in to arrest him. 
 
 
