Dunwoody police shoot suspect - Dunwoody Crier, The (GA) - January
23, 2018
January 23, 2018 | Dunwoody Crier, The (GA) | Dick Williams and Sue Stanton For The Crier

UPDAT E: Dunwoody police said Monday the responsibility for naming the officer rested with the
Georgia Bureau of Investigation. Under state law the GBI now investigates all officer-involved
shootings.

But Chief Billy Grogan changed his mind Tuesday and identified the officer as Jared Bradley, 38, a
four-year veteran of the force who came to Dunwoody from the Gwinnett County police.

A fatal shooting in a Dunwoody shopping center parking lot Saturday morning is raising questions
about police public information procedures.

At deadline, T he Crier has learned that the victim, Jason Lappe
attended the Marist School as well as Chattahoochee and Milton high schools.

Jason Lappe, 44, has local ties. He once

T he shooting occurred just before 8 a.m. in the parking lot in front of the Dollar Tree store in the
Winter Village Shopping Center on Winters Chapel Road.

Police were advised that a suspect in an armed robbery at a Johns Creek Kroger on Holcomb
Bridge had arrived at the shopping center's parking lot. A witness to the Kroger robbery followed
the suspect to the Dunwoody location, where Dunwoody and Johns Creek police confronted the
suspect.

According to Dunwoody police, the suspect refused to comply with verbal commands and exited
his vehicle.

Officers rendered first aid until EMS arrived. T he suspect was transported to Grady Hospital where
he died. Per police department procedures, the officer who shot the suspect was placed on paid
administrative leave.

On social media sites, many expressed concern for the police officer and the man who died. Others
didn't have much sympathy for the suspect. Several who posted to the DPD Facebook page
thanked officers for protecting citizens.

On Nextdoor.com, the theme was largely the same, but one poster suggested that police officers
should use stun guns to disable suspects.

Others were quick to defend the officers' actions against an armed suspect in a neighborhood
shopping center including a poster who witnessed the police arriving and who heard the gunshot.

"If an officer has drawn his firearm and issued an order, you'd better comply or assume the worst

will happen," he wrote.

Dunwoody resident Jana Keeler wrote that an officer had to make the most difficult decision
required in doing his job. T herefore, a life was lost and several others, including the officers',
forever changed, Keeler wrote as she offered prayers for all involved including the suspect.

"Life will never be the same for them," Keeler wrote. "May they find a new normalcy."

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Dunwoody Crier, All Rights Reserved.

 