
 
About two dozen demonstrators marched a few blocks down Pulaski Road in Midlothian to the village’s police

station Friday to protest the Nov. 11 shooting of Jemel Roberson by a police officer. 

“We came out on Black Friday to call for an economic boycott of Midlothian,” Eric Russell, activist and co-organizer

of the rally, said. 

Roberson, 26, was working as security guard at Manny’s Blue Room in Robbins and was attempting to apprehend

a gunman when Midlothian police arrived on the scene and shot him, police said. 

State police have stated that Roberson wasn’t wearing anything to identify him as a security guard, but several

witnesses say that “security” was written on his shirt. 

Activist Matt Harrington said Friday that protestors want the police officer, whose name has not been released, to

be fired and charged and for the mayor and police chief of Midlothian to step down for allegedly trying to cover-up

the incident. 

Shouting chants, such as “Justice for Jemel” and “No justice, no peace, no racist Midlothian police,” protestors

also prayed for justice while placing their hands on the Midlothian Village Hall building. 

Midlothian police stopped traffic temporarily on Pulaski Road to allow the protestors to cross the street and had

monitored them in front of the village hall. 

Along with activist Tio Hardiman, who also attended Friday’s rally, Harrington and Russell helped organize a Black

Friday protest along Michigan Avenue in Chicago three years ago to protest the killing of Laquan McDonald. 

Although not as large as that demonstration, Russell said they were trying to bring attention to the fact that many

Robbins residents shop in Midlothian and a boycott is needed to motivate officials to act. 

The marchers were joined by Roberson’s girlfriend and mother of their 9-month-old child. 

Harrington said other demonstrations are being planned for some time after Roberson’s funeral on Saturday. 

Frank Vaisvilas is a freelance reporter for the Southtown Star. 

Credit: Frank Vaisvilas 
 
 
