4/15/2019

Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberson Was To Blame For His Own Death | HuffPost




Log In

Sign Up

POLITICS  11/15/2018 02:07 pm ET | Updated Nov 15, 2018

Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel
Roberson Was To Blame For His Own
Death

Illinois state police say Roberson refused to put down his gun. Witnesses say
otherwise.

By Andy Campbell

There’s no question that the death of security guard Jemel Roberson was in grave error.

He was shot dead by a police oﬃcer on Sunday but should be taking a victory lap today: He 

was killed while subduing a suspect in a shooting at the bar where he worked, Manny’s Blue 

Room in Robbins, Illinois, outside Chicago.


Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberso…



   

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/illinois-police-fatal-shooting-black-security-guard-jemel-roberson_n_5bed9bb8e4b0dbb7ea6866a2?ncid=txtlnkusaolp00000616

1/5

4/15/2019

Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberson Was To Blame For His Own Death | HuffPost

One of the drunken patrons he told to leave earlier had re-entered with a gun and shot 
multiple people, and Roberson ― who was also armed ― tried to pin one of the men 
involved until police arrived.

“He had somebody on the ground with his knee in back, with his gun in his back like, ‘Don’t 

move,’” witness Adam Harris told WGN-TV. 

What happened next is still being debated between the Illinois State Police, witnesses and 
Roberson’s friends and family.

A responding Midlothian police oﬃcer shot Roberson, 26, who later died at a hospital. On 

Tuesday state police, tasked with independently investigating the shooting by the 

oﬃcer, stated in a press release that Roberson didn’t identify himself as a security guard and 

ignored the oﬃcer’s demands to drop his gun:

Upon his arrival, a Midlothian Police Oﬃcer encountered a subject in plain black 

clothing with no markings readily identifying him as a Security Guard, armed with a gun 

in the west parking lot. According to witness statements, the Midlothian Oﬃcer gave 

the armed subject multiple verbal commands to drop the gun and get on the ground 

before ultimately discharging his weapon and striking the subject.

On Wednesday, however, a witness had a diﬀerent story. Dorian Myrickes told The 

Associated Press that nobody ordered Roberson to put down his gun before he was shot and 

that he was wearing at the time a knit hat and black sweatshirt, both emblazoned with the 

word “security.” 

Myrickes was shot in the initial incident. From his hospital room, he spoke to the AP, which 

reported, “Myrickes says he had just been shot in the shoulder by a gunman inside Manny’s 

Blue Room in Robbins early Sunday when he saw the oﬃcer point his gun at the 26-year-old 

Roberson. He says he could hear people yelling that Roberson was a security guard. The 

oﬃcer then ﬁred multiple shots.”

One of Roberson’s friends from high school, Citlali Arroyo, told HuﬀPost that she was sad ― 
but not surprised ― to see police cast blame onto her “gentle giant” of a friend for his own 
death.



Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberso…



   

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/illinois-police-fatal-shooting-black-security-guard-jemel-roberson_n_5bed9bb8e4b0dbb7ea6866a2?ncid=txtlnkusaolp00000616

2/5

4/15/2019

Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberson Was To Blame For His Own Death | HuffPost

“We all know how these things go. I know that we’re all scared for what’s going to come 

next,” she said. “Generally, in the aftermath comes destruction of the person’s character, and 

we want to stop this from happening.”

Arroyo helped plan a vigil in Chicago on Friday for those who can’t make a family event for 

Roberson outside the city. It will be a peaceful aﬀair at their high school, Lane Tech, to honor 

Roberson as they remember him: the father of a 9-month-old boy, Tristan, for whom Roberson 

was working extra shifts to buy presents; a hero whose girlfriend is pregnant with their 

second child; a musician at several local churches he attended; a lawful man with dreams of 

becoming a police oﬃcer; a hard worker who helped his friends get through school.

“We both almost didn’t graduate, so we worked really hard to make it through together,” 

Arroyo said over the phone, through tears. “His character is just a warm, friendly, gentle giant. 

He was always so goofy. Friendly, kind and funny — those are the top three for anyone who 

knew him. He was always laughing or joking around.”

A GoFundMe campaign set up on behalf of Roberson’s family for his funeral costs reached 

Correction: An earlier version of this story erroneously stated that Tristan is 9 years old. He is 

Do you have information you want to share with HuﬀPost? Here’s how.

$140,000 by Thursday.

9 months old.

BEFORE YOU GO



Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberso…



   

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/illinois-police-fatal-shooting-black-security-guard-jemel-roberson_n_5bed9bb8e4b0dbb7ea6866a2?ncid=txtlnkusaolp00000616

3/5

4/15/2019

Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberson Was To Blame For His Own Death | HuffPost

Andy Campbell 
Senior Reporter, HuﬀPost

Suggest a correction

MORE:

Police Shooting

 

Illinois

 

Jemel Roberson

MOST SHARED

George Conway
Reveals The Key
Phrase To Watch
For In Full Mueller
Report

Trump On Notre
Dame Fire:
‘Perhaps Flying
Water Tankers
Could Be Used To
Put It Out’

Gymnast
Samantha Cerio
Thought
‘Something Was A
Little Wrong’ After
Fall

The Texas AG Says
Voter Fraud Is A
Big Problem. His
Cases Suggest
Otherwise.

Hungry And Horny
Alligators Are
Invading Streets,
Homes And Pools
In Florida

WHAT’S HOT

Kristen Bell Brings The
Fire For Icy ‘Game Of
Thrones’ Costume

Charges Dropped
Against Woman
Accused Of Assaulting
Kellyanne Conway At
Restaurant

Did ‘Game Of Thrones’
Just Burn Ed Sheeran’s
Cameo?

Keanu Reeves’
Photographs In GQ Are
One Big Thirst Trap For
Twitter



Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberso…



   

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/illinois-police-fatal-shooting-black-security-guard-jemel-roberson_n_5bed9bb8e4b0dbb7ea6866a2?ncid=txtlnkusaolp00000616

4/5

4/15/2019

Police Suggest Security Guard Jemel Roberson Was To Blame For His Own Death | HuffPost

John Oliver Gets
Hollywood’s Biggest
Stars To Taunt Purdue
Over Opioid Crisis

Michelle Obama On
That Time She Broke
Royal Protocol With
Queen Elizabeth

The ‘Game Of Thrones’
Premiere Gave Us The
Bran Stark Memes We
Deserve

Conservatives Upset
‘The Good Fight’ Wants
You To Punch Nazis

ABOUT US

ADVERTISE

RSS

FAQ

User Agreement

Privacy Policy

About Our Ads

Careers

Comment Policy

Contact Us

Archive

HuﬀPost Press Room

Part of HuffPost News. ©2019 Verizon Media. All rights reserved.

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/illinois-police-fatal-shooting-black-security-guard-jemel-roberson_n_5bed9bb8e4b0dbb7ea6866a2?ncid=txtlnkusaolp00000616

5/5

 