
 
MIDLOTHIAN, Ill. –An attorney for the partner of the black security guard who was shot to death by a suburban

Chicago police officer this week called on investigators Friday to release the officer’s name –or he'll do it himself.  

Jemel Roberson, 26, was working security at a bar in Robbins, Illinois, early Sunday when a gunman opened fire

inside the bar.  

Roberson was armed and licensed to carry a gun. He apprehended the gunman outside the bar, pinned him down

and was waiting for police help when a responding officer from the neighboring town of Midlothian arrived.  

Police say the officer ordered Roberson to drop his gun. Witnesses say they shouted that Roberson was a security

guard. The officer shot and killed Roberson.  

Civil rights attorney Lee Merritt, who is representing the mother of Roberson’s 9-month-old son, accused Illinois

State Police and the Midlothian Police Department of withholding the name of the officer to give him time to clean

up his internet footprint and “hide evidence. ” 

September by an off-duty police officer.  

Merritt also represents the family of Botham Jean, the Dallas man who was shot to death in his home in

Dallas Police Officer Amber Guyger has said she mistakenly entered the man’s apartment in the same complex

where she lived. She has said she thought she was in her apartment, and Jean was an intruder.  

Dallas Police kept Guyger's name out of the public until she was arrested and charged with manslaughter, about

48 hours after the incident.  

“They refused to release Amber Guyger’s name, which gave her a chance to scrub the internet and hide evidence,”

Merritt told USA TODAY on Friday. “It’s exactly what’s going on here. ” 

Merritt said he’s learned the name of the Midlothian officer independently and plans to release it to the media on

Monday if authorities haven't by then.  

Illinois State Police, which is investigating the shooting, referred questions on the officer's identity to Midlothian

Police. Officials in Midlothian did not respond to requests for comment.  

Midlothian Police have confirmed that the officer is white, has been a police officer for about seven years,

including four years with Midlothian, and is a team leader on a SWAT task force that includes officers from south

suburban Chicago law enforcement agencies.  

More: Police: Cop who shot security guard Jemel Roberson gave 'multiple' commands to drop weapon before firing 

More: Police officer near Chicago fatally shot security guard who was detaining a suspect 

The shooting outside Manny's Blue Room Lounge in Robbins has drawn national headlines, outrage and questions

about whether race factored into the officer’s decision to open fire. Roberson was black. The officer is white.  

The person Roberson apprehended had allegedly fired a weapon inside the bar moments earlier, wounding multiple

people and drawing police from surrounding jurisdictions to rush to the establishment.  

The Cook County Sheriff’s Office is investigating the shooting inside the bar. The state police Public Integrity Task

Force is investigating the shooting outside the bar. No charges have been filed in either incident.  

The task force has said the Midlothian officer was responding to reports of a shooting when he saw a man decked

out in “plain black clothing with no markings readily identifying him as a security guard, armed with a gun. " 

“According to witness statements, the Midlothian Officer gave the armed subject multiple verbal commands to

drop the gun and get on the ground before ultimately discharging his weapon and striking the subject,” state police

said.  

Midlothian’s Police chief has praised Roberson as a brave man who was doing his job. He said he saw the incident

ultimately as a "blue on blue," friendly fire shooting.  

Merritt accused Illinois State Police and Midlothian Police of releasing a slow drip of information “designed to

exonerate this officer …and throw water on the community unrest. ” 

Merritt said witnesses have told him that Roberson was wearing a beanie-styled hat emblazoned with the word

“SECURITY,” and a shirt and vest with similar markings.  

The attorney said witnesses –some of whom he said were not interviewed by police –told him the officer did not

give Roberson an opportunity to comply with his order to drop the gun.  

“They’re (police) saying 'We told him drop the gun and he didn’t, that there was time to reflect,' ”Merritt said. “The

people we’ve interviewed are saying ‘It was drop the gun –Pop! Pop! Pop!” 

Roberson suffered multiple gunshot wounds, according to the Cook County Medical Examiner’s Officer.  

Roberson's mother, Beatrice Roberson, has filed a federal civil lawsuit against Midlothian and the officer. Her

attorney, Gregory Kulis, issued a subpoena Friday calling on Illinois State Police to release the name of the officer,

according to a court filing.  

Several Chicago area pastors and civil rights activist joined Merritt’s call to release the officer’s name. The Rev.

Michael Pfleger, a prominent Catholic pastor and civil rights activist, said Midlothian should immediately fire the

officer and the Cook County State’s Attorney’s Office should file murder charges.  

Authorities say that officers from several jurisdictions were at the scene. The Midlothian officer is the only one

who discharged his weapon.  

racial profiling. ” 

“It was not a blue on blue,” Pfleger said. “It was blue-on-black crime. This was no accidental murder. This was

LeAundre Hill, pastor at Chicago’s Purposed Church, said Roberson worked as an organist and musician at several

Chicago-area churches and recently helped with the music at the funeral service for one of Hill’s relatives.  

Roberson had a 9-month-old son with Avontae Boose. She is pregnant with their second child.  

He planned to apply to become a police officer in the Chicago area.  

Roberson had been hustling to pick up work wherever he could find it, Merritt said, so he’d have money to buy

plenty of gifts for his son’s first Christmas. He had a paid gig to play organ at a Chicago church on the morning he

Boose had been nervous about being pregnant again, Merritt said, but Roberson had assured her they’d be fine.  

“The idea to being pregnant again that soon after having her first child was kind of kind of scary,” Merritt said. “He

was able to calm her down. He said, 'I'm going to become a police officer. I am going to be able to provide for you

was killed.  

and this family. ’” 
 
 
