
 
Kanye West is doing his part to help the family of Jemel Roberson, the security guard who was fatally shot by a

police officer in Chicago earlier this month while he was detaining a suspected gunman.  

West donated $150,000 to a GoFundMe page set up by Roberson's family to raise money for his funeral, with

GoFundMe representative Bart Jackson confirming West's donation to USA TODAY.  

As of Monday morning, the GoFundMe had raised over $310,000, more than double the page's goal of $150,000.  

"The money that has been raised has gone far beyond the original goal," a note on the GoFundMe page reads. "This

will greatly support his family’s needs during this tragic time. " 

USA TODAY has reached out to GoFundMe for comment.  

After pledging in an Oct. 30 tweet to distance himself from politics, West has continued donating money to causes,

including a $126,460 contribution to Amara Enyia, a left-leaning candidate running for mayor in West’s hometown

of Chicago, per Illinois State Board of Elections records.  

West, who famously visited President Trump in the Oval Office in October, announced he was stepping away from

politics after Candace Owens, the communications director for the conservative group Turning Point USA,

incorrectly suggested that West was involved in designing apparel for the “Blexit" movement, which encourages

black voters to stop supporting Democratic candidates.  

More: West gives progressive mayoral candidate $126,000 after 'distancing' himself from politics 

West's most recent donation comes after Robertson's Nov. 11 death. Roberson, 26, was working at Manny’s Blue

Room in Robbins, Illinois, when a dispute involving several men broke out, and one of the men opened fire inside

the bar, according to Sam Randall, a Cook County Sheriff’s Office spokesman.  

Roberson apprehended the gunman outside the bar and was waiting for police help when an officer from the

neighboring town of Midlothian arrived and opened fire on Roberson, shooting and killing him, according to

witnesses and a federal lawsuit filed by Roberson’s mother.  

Original story: Police officer near Chicago fatally shot security guard who was detaining a suspect 

More: Family demands police release name of cop who shot black security guard 

Aamer Madhani contributed to this report.  
 
 
