
 
Three Nashville Metro police supervisors did not carry out their leadership roles during an officer-involved shooting

in October 2018, the department said in a release Monday —but if they had, an officer may not have been shot. 

Officer Samuel Galluzzi was shot twice in the leg during the Oct. 5 incident in the 2400 block of Buena Vista Pike.

Another man, Sershawn Martez Dillon, 30, was fatally shot once in the back by officers during the encounter. 

North Precinct leaders Lieutenant Viviyonne Lee, Sergeant Harold Wells and Sergeant James Boone face

disciplinary action following a police investigation. The office of professional accountability has recommended

that Lee and Wells be demoted. 

Their investigation found that if the supervisors had behaved appropriately, Galluzzi may not have been wounded. 

"This report finds no failure of policy or training, but rather a failure to use the training and policy knowledge these

supervisors had," MNPD Chief Steve Anderson said in the release. 

What happened in October? 

On the Night of Oct. 5, 2018, Galuzzi and another officer were dispatched to assist off-duty officers at the

Cumberland Pointe apartment complex. 

The call regarded a man believed to have been involved in a shots fired call, who may also have assaulted a

woman in a common area and entered a stranger's apartment with innocent persons inside. That suspect is

believed to be Dillon. According to the MNPD internal investigation, Galuzzi called Wells about the situation as it

evolved. Wells then told Lee what was happening. 

Neither supervisor headed to the scene at that point, the investigation showed. 

"The two supervisors did not immediately come to the scene. In fact, Galluzzi was told over the phone that, if he

had no further information, to write a report and check back into service," Metro police said in the release. 

At the scene, though, the release said Galuzzi was concerned about the situation and reached out to another

sergeant: Boone. Boone, the investigation showed, told the officer to reach out to a North Precinct detective for

Only after that detective arrived did Wells, Lee and Boone head to the apartment complex, the investigation

The plan then put in place and executed on Lee's orders is what led to the avoidable shooting, the investigation

help. 

revealed. 

revealed. 

What led up to the shooting? 

The supervisors, the officers and the detective were all on scene at the apartment complex. 

Even then, the release states that a "lack of communication" between the supervisors, officers and witnesses

contributed to the situation before the shooting. Lee, the investigation shows, decided to forgo the option of calling

in a specialized SWAT response to approach the apartment where the suspect in question was reportedly located. 

Lee obtained a pass key to the apartment, and she advanced on the apartment, followed by the other supervisors

and officers. 

Galluzzi reportedly told investigators that "none of the officers thought the decision was proper given the

circumstances, but they went along without a supervisory plan in place." 

Lee then used the pass key to open the door to the apartment and announced that she was conducting a welfare

check. During the exchange, the suspect, Dillon, allegedly fired his pistol and ran out of the apartment, causing all

The North Precinct detective and a fellow officer fired on Dillon, who was fatally wounded. 

Galluzzi was hit in the leg and ankle during the gunfire. It was not immediately clear who fired the shots that

of the officers to move for cover. 

injured Galluzzi. 

What are the supervisors facing? 

Lee faces a 20-day suspension; Boone a five-day suspension. The supervisors have until later this month to accept

the recommendations or request formal disciplinary hearings. 

Lee and Wells have been on administrative assignment since the shooting. 

"MNPD supervisors throughout the city are making correct decisions virtually every minute of the day in

accordance with the continuous training they receive," Anderson said in the release. "Decision-making lapses and

errors in a case like this, though extraordinarily rare, are very serious and are being treated as such." 

The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation is handling the investigation into the officer-involved shooting, and the

department's internal investigation was conducted with their go-ahead, MNPD said. 

Reach reporter Mariah Timms at mtimms@tennessean.com or 615-259-8344 and on Twitter @MariahTimms. 

Lee 

Boone 

Wells 

Galluzzi 

CREDIT: Mariah Timms 
 
 
