Rock Falls officer won't be charged in driver's - Sauk Valley
Newspapers (Dixon-Sterling, IL) - June 29, 2018
June 29, 2018 | Sauk Valley Newspapers (Dixon-Sterling, IL) | KATHLEEN A. SCHULTZ kschultz@saukvalley.com
815-625-3600, ext. 5535 @KathleenSchul10

MORRISON – T he Rock Falls police officer who shot and killed a driver as he was backing toward
him fired in self-defense and will not be charged with a crime, Whiteside County State's Attorney
T erry Costello said Friday in a news release.

According to the release, and previous stories:

Nathaniel T . "Nate" Edwards, 43, of Sterling, was shot five times in the back and killed around 7:45
p.m. Jan. 26 in the driveway of 1304 Franklin St., where he had been attending a party, after a slow-
speed police pursuit involving two Rock Falls and one Whiteside County Sheriff's squad car.

T he incident began when officer Dustin Sugars spotted Edwards on Dixon Avenue weaving and
speeding 41 mph in a 30-mph zone.

Edwards ignored police emergency lights and not only refused to stop his car, but also twice drove
through a ditch and around squad cars attempting to block his path.

When he did pull into the driveway, he did not respond to commands, and ignored Sugars' warning,
made with gun drawn and in an attempt to get him to exit the car, that "you're going to get shot."

Edwards replied "Kill me," followed by expletives, and laid his head against the window where the
gun was pointing.

T hen, after being told "do not back up," he revved the engine, put the white Cadillac in reverse and
accelerated toward Rock Falls Sgt. Jonathan Cater, who had joined the chase, and was standing
behind the car on the passenger side, gun drawn.

Officer Ethan Riley, whom Cater was training that night, also was behind the car, on the driver's
side, gun drawn.

Cater moved out of the way and fired six shots into the back window, five of which hit Edwards –
who still managed to put the car in park – and four of which were fatal. Edwards was pronounced
dead at 8:48 p.m. at CGH Medical Center.

Riley, who also had to move out of the car's path, told investigators he considered shooting into
the car, as well, but Sugars was in his way.

T he pursuit was captured on two dashboard cameras; the shooting happened out of range of the
cameras. Two other nearby squad cars were not equipped with dash-cams.

T oxicology results showed Edwards, who had a long history of drug- and alcohol-related traffic
offenses, was drunk and high on marijuana at the time; his BAC was .189, more than double the
legal limit to drive.

Cater "reasonably believed" that his life and Riley's life were in danger, Costello concluded after
considering the results of the State Police investigation.

"Having reviewed the evidence submitted and the law, Officer Cater's actions in discharging his
weapon, resulting in the death of Nathaniel T . Edwards
the 11-page release, sent around 12:30 Friday afternoon.

N athaniel T . Edwards , is valid as self-defense," Costello said in

"Considering the totality of the circumstances Officer Cater faced, he reasonably believed that his
and Officer Riley's lives were in danger. T he Whiteside County State's Attorney's Office will not be
pursuing any charges against Rock Falls Police officer Jonathan Cater as a result of this incident."

Edwards' mother, Alfredia Edwards of Chicago, is suing the city, the department and Cater in
federal court, claiming the the officer's "wrongful use of deadly force" violated her son's civil rights.

T he suit claims the shooting was "intentional willful and wanton," "unprovoked," "unjustified,"
"excessive and unreasonable," and that the use of deadly force violated Edwards' Fourth and 14th
Amendment rights.

T he Fourth Amendment protects citizens against unreasonable search and seizure. T he 14th
provides equal protection under the law for all citizens; it has been interpreted to mean regardless
of race, sex, religion, etc.

Cater, a 10-year veteran of the force, is white; Edwards was black.

Cater was put on administrative leave and returned to his job on March 26, the same day the ISP
turned over its findings to Costello.

In addition to statements from neighborhood witnesses, and from Cater, Riley, Sugars and the two
Whiteside County deputies on scene, the ISP report also included the autopsy report, including the
toxicology test results and and a laboratory analysis of Cater's service weapon.

Neither Cater nor any of the other officers involved – Riley, Sugars, and deputies Sean Coutts and
Rollie Elder – were publicly identified until today's release.

Copyrig ht 2018, Sauk Valley Newspapers (Dixon-Sterling , IL). All Rights Reserved.

 