Prosecutor: No charges against officer who shot - Durango Herald, The
(CO) - December 4, 2018
December 4, 2018 | Durango Herald, The (CO) | Kathleen Foody

DENVER – A Colorado police officer will not face charges for fatally shooting a homeowner who
had just killed an intruder inside his suburban Denver home, prosecutors said in a letter released
Monday.

Adams County District Attorney Dave Young described Richard "Gary" B lack
"harrowing tragedy" but said his role was to determine whether the Aurora Police officer who shot
the 73-year-old Vietnam War veteran was justified in using deadly force.

Richard "Gary" B lack's death as a

Based on witness interviews and more than 90 videos captured by officers' body cameras, Young
said Officer Drew Limbaugh did not know who Black was and fired when the homeowner refused
police commands to drop his handgun.

Young said Limbaugh's belief was reasonable and prosecutors cannot prove that the officer was
not justified in firing. He said there also is no evidence that Limbaugh was reckless or criminally
negligent.

"Officer Limbaugh engaged in conduct that was consciously focused on minimizing the risk to
public safety," Young wrote.

At the time of the shooting, Young said police did not know that Black had woken after midnight to
investigate banging sounds and soon heard his 11-year-old grandson screaming as an intruder
attacked him inside the bathroom. Police also did not know that the intruder, later identified as
Dajon Harper, was lying on the bathroom floor after being shot twice by Black, he said.

"T he evaluation of Officer Limbaugh's reasonable belief must be based not upon what we now
know, but the circumstances as he perceived them at the time: hearing gunshots and then seeing
an armed man emerge from a back room who refused commands to drop the weapon," Young
wrote.

T he witnesses and police officers interviewed by investigators paint a chaotic scene. Young said
police arriving at the home in Aurora around 1:30 a.m. on July 30 had little information and no
description of a suspect.

Within seconds, he said police heard gunshots inside the house and saw Black come into the
hallway holding a handgun in one hand and a flashlight in the other. Young said the body camera
footage shows police repeatedly told Black to drop his weapon before he came toward officers,
raising the flashlight, and Limbaugh fired three times.

Police have said Black had hearing impairment due to his military service. Young wrote that Black

may not have heard the commands or recognized the officers as police but said that does not
change Limbaugh's "reasonable belief that Mr. Black presented a threat."

Witnesses told police that Harper was at a party at a family member's home nearby and may have
been using drugs. Early that morning, he ran away and apparently broke down the Black family's
front door.

Black's grandson told police he woke up after feeling a cold breeze. He described walking toward
his father's bedroom but then seeing a stranger showering as he passed the open bathroom door.

T he boy said the man grabbed him, locked the bathroom door and was strangling him before his
father and grandfather were able to get inside the room.

Harper, who was 26, died after being shot twice in the chest by Black. An autopsy report found
levels of marijuana and methamphetamine in his blood.

(c) 2018, The Durang o Herald, All Rights Reserved

 