
 
"He was so looking forward to his first child. He'd been out shopping all day for his baby boy and was looking

forward to being a great dad." 

Oliver Gantt, Family spokesman, on Theoddeus Gray 

Friends and family of Theoddeus Gray filled a Detroit church with songs and prayer at a funeral service on

Saturday for the 29-year-old man who was fatally shot by police Nov. 4 in St. Clair Shores. 

A collage of photographs, including Gray, smiling with friends and family, was displayed near the entrance of

Jamison Temple Baptist Church. The service began at 11 a.m., and nearly 30 minutes later, there was only

standing room. A poem called "Justice for Theo" was read by a young woman, and the pastor spoke of the value of

human life. 

home-going service." 

"It wasn't a sad occasion," said Oliver Gantt, a family spokesman who attended the ceremony. "It was hurtful for

the parents and those who loved him, but there was a lot of love in that room, wall-to-wall. It was (a) beautiful

St. Clair Shores police fatally shot Gray outside of a baby shower for his first child on Nov.4 at Lakeland Manor on

Harper. Macomb County Sheriff's Office is investigating the circumstances. 

Gantt, who wasn't at the baby shower, said that Gray's family told him Theoddeus Gray had been shaking hands

and greeting people before something happened in the hall —an exchange of words —between Gray and his

pregnant girlfriend's family. 

Police said officers responded to the hall, where there were about 70 people in attendance, after receiving calls of a

man with a rifle outside. Officers matched the description to Gray. After ignoring several demands from police,

Gray began to flee on foot, according to a news release from police. 

A police dog was then deployed, and police say Gray fatally shot the dog, named Axe, with a handgun. Officers

returned fire, fatally shooting Gray. He was taken to an area hospital and pronounced dead. 

Gantt said the family hired an independent medical examiner, and the information he has received is that Gray was

shot from behind at least 10 times from the head down. 

Authorities have not released details on the number or location of wounds, and the Free Press has requested a

copy of the autopsy report through the Freedom of Information Act. The cause of Gray's death was multiple

gunshot wounds and the manner of death was homicide, said Lisa Croff, spokeswoman for the Wayne County

Medical Examiner's Office. 

Gray's body will be interred at Lincoln Memorial Park Cemetery, near 14 Mile and Gratiot Avenue in Clinton

Township. His casket on Saturday was covered in red roses and white daisies. 

Gray's family declined to be interviewed. Media were not allowed inside the service on Saturday. 

Sergeant O'brien with the Macomb County Sheriff's Office told the Free Press on Saturday that the shooting

incident remains under investigation. 

information will become available. 

No dashcam or body camera video, or reports of the incident, have been released. It remains unclear when more

The information officials have released so far has raised questions about what happened that night. 

"First they said there were reports a rifle, and then they say it's a handgun? Which one is it?" said Gantt. 

A memorial service for Axe, a four-year-old German Shepard, was held on Nov. 14 at Assumption Greek Orthodox

Church in St. Clair Shores. 

"There is zero proof that Theo shot that dog," Gantt said. "The bullets beat the dog to Theo." 

Gray, of Detroit, was the only child of parents Theoddeus and Tracy. He was born on May 12, 1989 in Detroit and

had long been a member of Pastor Homer Jamison's church, according to a memorial service program. He

graduated from Clintondale Alternative High School and had a "contagious spirit." It also said Gray was "smooth,

charismatic" and had a charming smile. 

He enjoyed shopping, dressing sharp, and from a young age embraced a career in rap. He was known as "Bands

Thee" and was popular on social media. One of his YouTube videos has nearly 50,000 views. Gantt said that Gray

was working on a full-length album at the time of his death. 

"He was so looking forward to his first child," said Gantt. "He'd been out shopping all day for his baby boy and was

looking forward to being a great dad." 

Reporter Christina Hall contributed to this report. Follow Meira Gebel on Twitter @MeiraGebel. 

"He was so looking forward to his first child. He'd been out shopping all day for his baby boy and was looking

forward to being a great dad." 

Oliver Gantt, Family spokesman, on Theoddeus Gray 

CREDIT: Meira Gebel 
 
 
