Records reveal shooting details - BARTLESVILLE - Bartlesville
Examiner-Enterprise (OK) - January 19, 2018 - page A1
January 19, 2018 | Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise (OK) | Tim Hudson | Page A1

T he affidavit of the man arrested on drug charges provides details into the officer-involved
shooting that killed a 72-year-old woman Wednesday night in west Bartlesville.

According to police reports, dead is 72-year-old Geraldine T ownsend
Anthony Livingston, was arrested on charges of possession of marijuana with intent to distribute,
paraphernalia, possession of firearm or weapon in commission of felony and feloniously
possessing firearm.

Geraldine T ownsend. Her son, 50-year-old Mike

According to the case's probable cause affidavit, the incident began around 9:30 p.m. Wednesday
when Bartlesville Police Department officers served a search warrant at a residence in the 1600
block of SW Maple.

T he warrant was reportedly pursuant to a surveillance on the residence that reportedly revealed
that a "hand-to-hand transaction" had taken place. Police stopped the vehicle that had left the
residence and "marijuana was recovered."

When police arrived to serve the search warrant, they said they observed "surveillance cameras on
the front of the residence."

Reportedly six officers had been involved in the service and, when officers announced "police
department search warrant," officers said they heard shouting from inside the house and used a
"door ram tool" to make entry into the residence. Authorities could "smell the odor of marijuana"
immediately and recognized Livingston in the living room. He was then ordered to the ground and
he reportedly complied.

At that point, police heard "loud popping sounds" and one officer said he felt something hit his right
leg and felt a "sharp burning sensation" in his thigh. He said he then heard more "popping" noises,
and "one additional louder bang."

BPD Capt. Jay Hastings said the shots came from T ownsend.

Geraldine Townsend pointing what appeared to be a semi-automatic
"Officers observed Geraldine T ownsend
handgun at them and one officer returned fire striking Townsend once in the upper body,"
Hastings said.

One of the officers and Townsend were transported to Jane Phillips Medical Center, where
T ownsend later died from her injuries. T he officer reportedly received a facial injury and underwent
surgery Thursday morning to remove a projectile.

T he report stated that police found several baggies of marijuana, one of which was packaged
similar to the one they recovered in the traffic stop.

"A silver revolver type handgun" was also reportedly found on the floor an addition to two other
"CO2 BB/Pellet Guns."

Upon arrival at the jail, Livingston reportedly said "he would be getting out of jail soon and was
going to track drug task force officers down and kill them all." Further, he reportedly said "he was
going to kill their children as well."

T he investigation is in the hands of the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation and will be handed
over to the Washington County district attorney for review.

Bail was set in the case at $500,000.

SHOT S FIRED

T he Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation looked into an officer-involved shooting involving the
Bartlesville Police approximately 15 months ago. Here are the details.

路 Oct: 26, 2016: William Clifford Earl Cole, 36, of Copan was killed on Oct. 26, 2016 after attacking
officers who were responding to a domestic disturbance call in the 300 block of SE Edgewood.

A Taser didn't stop Cole who police officers saw chase a female out of the house. Cole, then,
started assaulting one of two officers on the scene. T hat officer fired his weapon and Cole was
shot. He was pronounced dead at Jane Phillips Medical Center. T he OSBI investigated the shooting,
and issued a report to Washington County District Attorney Kevin Buchanan.

路 Nov. 29, 2016: Buchanan said he had the OSBI report and would announce his decision on
whether or not to charge the officer soon.

路 Dec. 2, 2016: Buchanan announces he will not pursue charges against the Bartlesville Police
officer in the Oct. 26 shooting death of Cole.

路 Nov. 3, 2017: T he woman that Cole assaulted, Trina Brown, filed a federal lawsuit against the city
of Bartlesville, and the officer, Corey Boyd, in T ulsa. T he suit alleges the woman was struck by one
of Boyd's bullets, which struck her in the head behind the left ear, traveled down her neck and
lodged in her spine. T he suit contends the city "failed to train Boyd on the proper use of T asers,
proper use of deadly weapons and protection of innocentd citizens."

Copyrig ht 2018 Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise, All Rights Reserved.

 