Woman killed by Bartlesville police allegedly - Tulsa World (OK) -
January 18, 2018
January 18, 2018 | Tulsa World (OK) | Staff Writer Harrison Grimwood

T he woman shot and killed by Bartlesville police officers during a drug raid Wednesday night
allegedly fired a pellet gun at officers as they took the target of the raid into custody.

Geraldine T ownsend, 72, pointed "some type of high-powered pellet handgun" at officers,
Geraldine T ownsend
Bartlesville Police Capt. Jay Hastings said in a prepared statement. T he gun, he said, resembled a
real handgun.

Officers arrested 50-year-old Mike Anthony Livingston, the subject of the search warrant, Hastings
said. Townsend is believed to be Livingston's mother, Hastings said.

"While taking Livingston into custody officers heard shots, and two officers were struck with some
type of projectile," Hastings said.

Four officers had entered the house in the 1600 block of South Maple Avenue in Bartlesville to
serve a drug-related search warrant when the shots were fired about 9:30 p.m. Wednesday.
Livingston and the address were allegedly tied to the sale of drugs.

One officer returned fire, striking Townsend in the upper body. Bartlesville police did not identify the
officer who discharged a service weapon. Townsend allegedly shot one officer in the leg and
another in the face with the pellet gun.

Emergency responders transported Townsend and one officer she shot to a local hospital. Police
initially said her condition "appears to be critical." Townsend died there from her injuries, Hastings
said.

T he officer who was hospitalized was struck in the face.

Livingston was arrested on narcotics and weapons complaints, Hastings said. Livingston was
booked into the Washington County Jail on complaints of possession of marijuana with intent to
distribute, possession of paraphernalia, possession of a firearm in commission of a felony and
possession of eavesdropping equipment, according to jail records.

Bartlesville police turned the investigation over to the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation,
stating that "no further details can be released," according to Hastings.

Livingston's bail was set Thursday afternoon at $500,000, according to a Washington County Jail
official.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Tulsa World. World Publishing  Co.

 