
 
Jan. 25--Two Michigan State Police officers -- including a Cassopolis native -- were shot Wednesday morning while

executing a search warrant related to a cold case investigation in Union Township in rural Branch County. 

The shooting occurred at approximately 11:15 a.m. at a residence on Francisco Road. When troopers announced

their presence prior to making entry into the residence, the suspect, 62-year-old David Kidney, leveled a long gun at

the officers. 

They were attempting to take cover when D/Sgt. Aaron Steensma, of the Marshall Post, was shot in the chest and

Trooper Daniel Thayer, also of the Marshall Post, received a grazing wound to the hand and chest. The round that

struck Thayer in the chest was stopped by his ballistic vest. 

All MSP personnel were wearing body armor at the time of the incident. It is unclear at this time why Steensma

was injured despite being armored. 

Steensma, a Cassopolis graduate with family in the area, was transported to the hospital, and was reported to be in

serious but stable condition, according to Director Col. Kriste Kibbey Etue. Thayer did not seek medical attention. 

"Thanks to the quick actions of troopers at the scene and the excellent medical attention he received from

ProMedica Coldwater Regional Hospital, West Michigan Air Care and the trauma team at Borgess Medical Center,

D/Sergeant Steensma is doing remarkably well for the seriousness of his injury," Etue said in a press release. 

The MSP Emergency Support Team responded, and confirmed that Kidney is deceased. 

As of Thursday morning, MSP Communications Representative Lori Dougovito reported that Steensma's condition

was unchanged and that he was still in serious but stable condition. 

An autopsy was conducted on Kidney Thursday morning in Grand Rapids, Michigan. The autopsy confirmed that

his death was caused by a single gunshot wound sustained while exchanging gun fire with trooper. 

The investigation is ongoing and Dougovito said she could not provide more information at this time. 
 
 
