
 
Indiana police shot and killed a Sioux Falls man accused of chasing an employee at a car dealership with a knife in

a Chicago suburb in northwestern Indiana on Wednesday morning, according to the Chicago Tribune. 

Jimmy Terry, 30, of Sioux Falls was identified at the Lake County (Indiana) coroner's office. His death was ruled a

homicide, according to a release from the coroner's office, the Tribune reported. 

Terry was also a suspect in a burglary at a Sioux Falls car dealership Tuesday. Detectives were in the process of

putting a warrant out for his arrest, said Police Spokesman Sam Clemens. 

Terry ran his vehicle through the building's windows and took keys to a vehicle from the building. 

Police responded to the report of a man chasing an employee with a knife at 11:38 a.m. Wednesday in Merrillville,

Ind. 

Officers were told the man, later identified as Terry, was in a dark-colored Laredo Jeep with a South Dakota license

plate parked at the dealership entrance, according to The Times. 

A recording of the shooting was reviewed by the Tribune, which shows the SUV was stopped in the dealership with

a Merrillville squad car parked behind it. 

An officer stood at the driver's side door with another officer a few feet away from him. 

According to the Chicago Tribune, the officer took "a few quick steps back and away from the vehicle's door." Both

officers unholstered their guns and pointed them at the vehicle's open door. 

Terry, dressed in a yellow and purple jacket, stepped out of the driver's side, took two steps in the officers' direction

and was then shot. 

The Times. 

An object that appears to be a knife was visible in his right hand, according to the Chicago Tribune. The knife was

recovered from the scene, but authorities did not release how many shots were fired. 

At least one shell casing and other items were identified at the scene with yellow evidence markers, according to

Terry was taken to Methodist Hospital Southlake Campus in Merrillville for gunshot wounds. He was pronounced

dead at 12:12 p.m. Wednesday, according to the Chicago Sun-Times. 

The Northwest Indiana Major Crimes Task Force is investigating the shooting at the request of Merrillville police,

No other injuries were reported. 

according to the Chicago Tribune. 
 
 
