Coroner releases cause and manner of death in - Herald-Times
(Bloomington, IN) - August 10, 2018
August 10, 2018 | Herald-Times (Bloomington, IN) | Abby Tonsing

A bullet that entered Daniel B oyer
cause of death for the Bloomington man shot and killed by police this week.

Daniel Boyer's thigh and traveled into his abdomen and chest is listed as the

Police say Boyer pointed a loaded handgun at Deputies Don T eague and Deandre Moxley as they
served arrest warrants Tuesday morning at a mobile home in southwestern Monroe County. Both
deputies fired their 9 mm Glock 17 handguns, striking Boyer four times.

T he 24-year-old died at 10:01 a.m. Tuesday at IU Health Bloomington Hospital.

Monroe County Coroner Joani Shields released the cause and manner of death for Boyer by email
Friday morning, following a Wednesday morning autopsy in T erre Haute. Results from toxicology
tests remain pending.

According to Shields, the bullet that killed Boyer entered through the front of his left thigh, traveled
upwards and penetrated his aorta, liver and lung. "Preliminary cause of death is gunshot wound to
the abdomen and chest with preliminary manner as homicide," she said.

A second bullet that struck the same thigh exited from the lower left side of Boyer's back. A third
shot entered the right index finger at the second knuckle and the bullet became lodged in his wrist.

And, a fourth gunshot wound was to the left side of Boyer's back. T he coroner described this injury
as a superficial wound with the bullet exiting four inches from where it entered.

"T o be clear, there is no way of knowing which gunshot wound happened first," Shields said.

Four Monroe County sheriff's deputies and two sergeants went to a mobile home at 5996 W.
T ower Road, off Ison Road, to serve arrest warrants. T he deputies had information that Boyer,
who was wanted on methamphetamine charges, was also at the mobile home Tuesday morning.

Deputies T eague and Moxley have been placed on paid administrative leave during an internal
investigation into Boyer's death. T eague, a field training officer, had been paired with Moxley, a
rookie deputy, on T uesday.

Both deputies were wearing body cameras at the time of the police-action shooting. Capt. Ryan
Davis said Friday the sheriff's office will release the body camera footage to the media after the
Monroe County Prosecutor's Office reviews the case.

© Copyrig ht 2018 Herald-Times. All rights reserved.

 