Man has died after deputy-involved shooting - Herald-Times
(Bloomington, IN) - August 7, 2018
August 7, 2018 | Herald-Times (Bloomington, IN) | Abby Tonsing and Laura Lane 812-331-4245 |
atonsing@heraldt.com 812-331-4362 | llane@heraldt.com

Police say a 24-year-old Bloomington man pointed a handgun at two deputies approaching to
serve arrest warrants Tuesday morning, and died from injuries received when the officers shot
him.

Daniel Boyer was pronounced dead at 10:01 a.m. Tuesday at IU Health Bloomington Hospital.
Daniel B oyer

T hree women and a 16-year-old boy were inside the mobile home at 5966 W. Tower Road at the
time of the police-action shooting. T he teenager was also transported to the hospital with medical
issues Monroe County Sheriff Brad Swain described as a possible drug reaction.

Monroe County Coroner Joanie Shields released preliminary autopsy results for Boyer, which
determined he sustained a total of four gunshot wounds: one to his right index finger, two to his
left thigh and a superficial wound to his lower right back. Toxicology results are still pending and no
further information is available at this time, as this is an ongoing investigation.

Deputies arrived at the Tower Road residence Tuesday morning to serve a warrant for a home
detention violation to a 31-year-old woman who lives at the mobile home. T hey also had
information that Boyer, who was wanted on drug charges, might also be inside.

Swain said two deputies approached the back of the mobile home from a wooded area because
Boyer had in the past fled from police from out the back door there during previous attempts to
serve warrants.

Additional deputies were parked in the driveway of the property, which is nestled in a wooded area
alongside a gravel road that runs north of Tower Road, off Ison Road, at its dead end.

"T he male subject who they had been looking for came out the back door with a handgun, pointed
it at the deputies and said a comment to the effect of 'f--- this,'" Swain said.

T he sheriff said Boyer held a loaded semi-automatic handgun.

Both deputies fired their service weapons at Boyer, striking him. T hen they rendered first aid and
CPR until medics arrived.

T he sheriff did not name the two deputies involved in the police-action shooting.

"We won't release their names for now, give them some time to decompress," Swain said during a
press conference Tuesday afternoon.

One is an experienced deputy and training officer who served in Iraq and is in the Marine Corps
Reserves. T he other deputy is a rookie, just out of the police academy and completing his field
training.

T hey have been placed on paid administrative leave while the sheriff's department conducts an
internal investigation into Boyer's death.

"Should I have a need for an external investigation or another agency to assist, that's just a matter
of me making a phone call and requesting the assistance," Swain said.

Both deputies were wearing body cameras at the time of the shooting. Swain did not know how
many shots were fired, and said his understanding is that Boyer did not fire his weapon.

Bloomington police officers, Indiana State Police troopers and Van Buren Township firefighters
also responded to the scene in southwestern Monroe County.

T he sheriff's department requested assistance from Bloomington's Critical Incident Response
T eam, which used flash grenades to clear the mobile home, making sure no one was still inside
after the shooting.

Police had already transported the women and teen to the sheriff's station for questioning when
the CIRT  members arrived in their armored BearCat. Animal control officers seized a pitbull dog
from the mobile home.

Swain said the teen recently had left an Indianapolis juvenile facility and is related to one of the
women. Swain said the two had arrived at the mobile home minutes before deputies came with the
arrest warrants.

According to Monroe County court records, Boyer, of 712 W. Country Club Drive, had been
charged with multiple offenses over the past year involving methamphetamine and one charging
illegal gun possession.

Last November, police charged him with dealing and possessing meth, and he spent T hanksgiving
and Christmas in the Monroe County Jail under a $15,500 bond.

In March, a judge released Boyer from jail on his own recognizance and put him on house arrest.

But when he failed to appear for a June court hearing, a warrant was issued for his arrest and
return to jail.

T hen last Friday, Monroe Circuit Judge Mary Ellen Diekhoff found probable cause for four new
charges and issued a second warrant for dealing more than 10 grams of meth, possession of
more than 28 grams of meth, possession of an altered handgun and possession of paraphernalia.

Deputies who went to arrest him Tuesday morning at the Tower Road mobile home arrived with
two warrants for his arrest.

T hose charges carried a $30,500 bond, but Boyer would have been held without bond because of
the previous warrant for not showing up in court.

Court records indicate that when eight Indiana State Police troopers and detectives searched
Boyer's County Club Drive house on May 23, they found meth and smoking devices in his
bedroom.

T hey also found three handguns: a Taurus 9mm loaded with nine bullets; a .45-caliber with the
serial number scratched off that was loaded with 10 bullets; and a .380-caliber handgun with 11
rounds of ammunition.

© Copyrig ht 2018 Herald-Times. All rights reserved.

 