Hundreds mourn slain Locust Grove Officer Chase - Newnan Times-
Herald, The (GA) - February 20, 2018
February 20, 2018 | Newnan Times-Herald, The (GA) | The Newnan Times-Herald

Hundreds of residents lined both sides of the street in downtown McDonough, some holding signs
and flags, while others placed their hands over their hearts, to show their respect and gratitude for
Officer Maddox.

By Chelsea Prince - T he Henry Herald, McDonough

McDONOUGH — It was a morning of juxtaposition, the solemn ceremony befitting a police
officer's funeral set against the vibrancy and humor that characterized Chase Maddox's life.

Stories were told at the service of how Maddox never missed an opportunity to fidget and that no
supervisor's desk toy was ever safe; the colors are presented to his widow. Family remembered
Maddox's entrepreneurial spirit that got him in trouble more often than it made him money as a
kid; Taps is played. Or how Maddox, despite being the first officer hired by the Locust Grove Police
Department straight out of the academy at the tender age of 21, milked his seniority over older,
more experienced recruits; the end of watch call for unit 216, Officer Chase Maddox, is played over
a loud speaker.

Hundreds of mourners filled pews, hallways, and overflow rooms at Glen Haven Baptist Church to
honor and remember Maddox Saturday morning. More lined the roadways from Locust Grove to
the McDonough square and outside the church, standing to salute the fallen officer as local and
greater Atlanta law enforcement escorted his ashes by motorcade.

T he 26-year-old Locust Grove officer was killed Feb. 9 while assisting two Henry County sheriff's
deputies attempting to serve a warrant at a St. Francis Court home. T he two deputies, Sid Callaway
and Mike Corley, were wounded and are both recovering. Callaway has not been officially
discharged from the hospital after taking a bullet to his stomach, but it didn't stop him from
attending Maddox's memorial service in a wheelchair with ambulance team waiting.

Locust Grove Police Chief Jesse Patton struggled to maintain composure as he remembered
hearing the "officer down" call come over his police radio that day. Maddox was responding to a
request for backup when he was shot three times by 39-year-old Tierre Guthrie
T ierre Guthrie, with the fatal
shot sustained to his head. Guthrie was shot and killed at the scene, but not before rounds hit
Corley's bullet-proof vest and Callaway's abdomen.

Guthrie was wanted for failure to appear in Locust Grove Municipal Court on a city code issue.

"At the door of the residence, my worst fears were confirmed," Patton said of responding to the
scene. "As we worked, we prayed, holding back tears, anger, asking each other, 'Why?' I'm here to
tell you today, the answer to why is called evil. Evil tries to destroy good."

Maddox gave his life so that others could continue theirs, Patton said, so that evil would not win
out. "Chase Maddox is a hero."

He leaves behind a wife, Alex, and two sons. T heir youngest, Bodie Allen Maddox, was born
T uesday, four days after Maddox was killed in the line of duty. Family remembered him as a doting
father and loving husband who expressed his affection readily.

"If my love for that man could have kept him alive, he would have lived for eternity," Alex Maddox
said in a letter read by her brother, Coleton Segars. "And if the love that we've experienced today
from all of you from our community could keep him alive, he would live forever."

Segars said his sister didn't believe in soul mates before she met Chase, but she knew from the
start she would either "marry that man or he's going to be my best friend." Segars said Alex
Maddox was lucky — she got both.

"I just didn't think love like that existed, until you're holding it," Maddox said in the letter.

Family and fellow officers described Maddox as a good-humored tease who appreciated a laugh.
Lt. Matthew Long said Maddox's brand of humor was "unique," but that's what made him a perfect
fit for the Locust Grove Police Department.

He told of the time the chief called a "very green" Maddox into his office after a picture surfaced
online of Maddox in a compromising position — floating down a river in an inner tube while wearing
a Speedo, striking a very confident pose. T he same photo was shown larger-than-life in a slide
show running over two screens during the service.

Maddox was nervous he was in trouble, Long recalled. But when a stern-faced Patton used the
opportunity to poke fun at Maddox's expense, Long said Maddox knew he was at home among
the officers of the Locust Grove PD.

When it came time to get to work and focus his free-wheeling energy, Maddox was a fine police
officer, Patton said. He read out a letter of condolence from a father of a 21-year-old Warner
Robins man to whom Maddox had issued a super speeder ticket. T he father credited the officer
for the professionalism and courtesy shown to his son, who says now he respects Maddox for
helping him to change a dangerous driving habit.

T his wasn't out of the ordinary for Maddox. Patton said the officer had an "uncanny ability" to
reach reach resolutions that resulted in thanks from all parties involved.

"Chase accomplished more in five years than most officers do over their entire career," Patton
said.

Five years is too short for a young police officer's promising career. T wenty-six years is not
enough time to love a family.

Maddox's fellow officers, along with nearly a thousand more who traveled to McDonough to pay

their respects, watched on as the final rites and honors were bestowed upon Maddox and his
family. As the service drew to a close, mourners left the church to the words of Johnny Cash's
"Man in Black," a somber call to action for the men and women who will continue to protect and
serve in Maddox's place.

Ah, I'd love to wear a rainbow every day

And tell the world that everything's okay

But I'll try to carry off a little darkness on my back

Until things are brighter, I'm the Man In Black

Copyrig ht 2018 The Newnan Times-Herald, Inc, All Rights Reserved.

 