Fatal shooting raises questions about mental - Associated Press State
Wire: South Carolina (SC) - May 5, 2018
May 5, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: South Carolina (SC)

GREENVILLE, S.C. (AP) — T he four deputies involved in the shooting death of a South Carolina man
who called 911 for help during a mental health crisis aren't listed as officers who have participated
in what's considered the most thorough training for such situations.

T he Greenville News reports that records it obtained show the four deputies with the Greenville
County Sheriff's Office employees aren't among those who completed the weeklong training
spearheaded by the National Alliance on Mental Illness.

Deputies shot and killed 35-year-old Jermaine M assey
help with a mental health crisis.

Jermaine Massey on March 19th after Massey called 911 for

Interim Sheriff Johnny Mack Brown released the names of the four deputies involved in the
Jermaine Massey in "an effort to maintain transparency," the sheriff's
shooting of 35-year-old Jermaine M assey
office said in a statement. T hose involved were Master Deputy Wes Kilgore and Deputies Chris
Bell, Mark Dulude and Jake Lancaster. Lancaster was on scene but didn't fire a gun, the sheriff's
office said.

During Crisis Intervention Team training, participants learn about the signs and symptoms of
mental illnesses, who to recognize in crisis situations, safe de-escalation strategies and use of
community resources. NAMI offers the 40-hour class to law enforcement officers for free.

Kilgore, Bell, Dulude and Lancaster had taken a two-hour mandatory mental health course through
the S.C. Criminal Justice Academy, according to records obtained by T he News after the officers'
names were made public.

Ken Dority, the executive director of Greenville's chapter of NAMI, said the NAMI training is the
best training available to officers.

Deputies shot and killed Massey on March 19th after Massey called 911 for help with a mental
health crisis. Massey had told a dispatcher he suffered from bipolar disorder and was "fixing to do
something stupid."

T he sheriff at the time, Will Lewis, said deputies found Massey in the backyard of his home, holding
what appeared to be a butcher's knife. He also said it was a potential hostage situation because at
least five people were inside the home.

Lewis said deputies spent seven to 10 minutes negotiating with Massey and using non-lethal
tactics to apprehend him. Lewis, who is on suspension for issues not related to this case, said
deputies shot and killed Massey after he charged at the deputies with the knife.

Family members and community activists have said the shooting was unjustified and was the result
of authorities' inability to properly handle someone who was having a mental breakdown.

T he four deputies involved were placed on administrative leave. T hey were cleared of wrongdoing
and returned to duty following an internal investigation.

T he State Law Enforcement Division is still investigating the shooting, spokesman T hom Berry said
Friday.

___

Information from: T he Greenville News, http://www.greenvillenews.com

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 