Chitwood: Deputy fighting for stun gun when he - Daytona Beach News-
Journal, The (FL) - August 5, 2018 - page A1
August 5, 2018 | Daytona Beach News-Journal, The (FL) | Seth Robbins seth.robbins@news-jrnl.com | Article |
Page A1

DELAND — Volusia County Sheriff Mike Chitwood said his deputy was justified in the shooting
death of a Seville man, after the man wrestled away the deputy's Taser and attempted to fire it at
him.

T he Sheriff's Office released a 12-minute body camera video early Saturday evening that shows
Emmanuel Alquisiras .
the volatile moments that led to the fatal shooting of 29-year-old Emmanuel Alquisiras

T he video begins with Deputy Brandon Watson arriving at 1600 N. U.S. 17 in response to a
domestic violence call made by a woman, believed to be Alquisiras' wife. Sitting on worn wooden
steps leading to the second floor of a house, Alquisiras and a friend refuse to let the deputy pass
or speak to the woman behind them.

When she screams, "He has hit me," in Spanish, Alquisiras lunges at the woman. Watson fires a
T aser shot into Alquisiras' back, and he falls to the ground, but he continues to fight, grabbing at
the Taser even as Watson fires more shots of electricity.

Watson pulls out his gun, warning that he is going to have to shoot. Several intense minutes follow,
with Alquisiras threatening that the deputy is going to have to kill him in front of his kids.

“You ain’t going to take me out of here, amigo,” he says. “I don’t care if you shoot me.”

Shortly after, Alquisiras grabs at the Taser again. T he video becomes shaky, and the sound of
Watson firing off five rounds is heard. T he woman and her children scream and begin to cry.

Chitwood said a targeting light in the video shows that Alquisiras had wrested away Watson’s
T aser, and was aiming to fire it. He said the stun gun can be shot twice.

“If he loses his firearm, he is dead and everyone else is dead,” Chitwood said. “We are trained that if
you lose your T aser, you have to transition to your firearm.”

Chitwood said his deputy did everything possible to avoid the shooting, including calling on
Alquisiras to stop resisting several times.

“T he deputy gave half a dozen warnings and explained what was going to happen,” Chitwood said.
“If he lets the woman leave the house, the situation is over. If he lets the deputy cuff him, the
situation is over.”

T he Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating the shooting, which is standard, and

Watson, who was hired in 2015, has been placed on administrative leave.

Friday’s incident was the seventh deputy-related shooting in Volusia since Chitwood became sheriff
in January 2017. Chitwood, who has mandated training for his deputies on how to avoid the use of
deadly force, said the shooting was the first of 2018, with the last one occurring more than a year
ago.

Chitwood said Alquisiras had been previously arrested for domestic violence in 2008 and driving
under the influence in 2004. T here was also a recent incident where he was intoxicated and refused
to leave his children’s daycare.

“It’s sad, and it’s heartbreaking that this happened,” Chitwood said. “But on the same token, we
have to defend ourselves. And officers and deputies around the country lose their lives in domestic
violence calls.”

When asked why the deputy was alone, Chitwood said it was because he has only one unit assigned
to Seville.

In Northwest Volusia County, Seville and neighboring Pierson are remote and rural towns. T here,
the fences of horse ranches and the dark canopies of fern farms run alongside U.S. 17, a two-lane
road that slices through the greenery. Pancho’s Grocery sits at an intersection, just a short walk
from the stained cinder-block house where the shooting occurred.

Inside the store Saturday morning, there was much talk about the man’s children, now left without
a father. He and his wife had four daughters, ages 7, 5, 4 and 1, said Andres Carbajal. Alquisiras
worked as a roofer and was the family’s sole provider, he said.

“Why did they need to kill him?” Carbajal asked in Spanish. “How did the police help this family?”

Carbajal knew the family because they attended the same nearby church. He questioned if
shooting Alquisiras was the only option. He was interested in seeing the deputy’s body camera
video, which hadn’t been released to media yet.

“T here needs to be justice,” he said.

Carbajal and others said they worried what the shooting could mean for the community, largely
made up of Mexicans and other Latinos, many of whom are already fearful of authorities. When
Chitwood took office, he reached out to the migrant farmworkers in these towns, in an effort to
gain their trust.

“Now, when there is a domestic violence, there is going to be a worry that the police are going to
come,” Carbajal said. “T hey are not going to call.”

Copyrig ht 2018, Daytona Beach News-Journal, All Rights Reserved.

 