
 
Emantic Bradford Jr, the 21-year-old African American man who was killed by a police officer on Thanksgiving at a

mall in Alabama, was shot three times from behind, according to an independent autopsy released by a civil rights

attorney ben Crump. 

homicide." 

According to the report, observed wounds included a gunshot to the right side of Bradford Jr's body, in his head,

neck and lower back. The report states: "The cause of death is gunshot wound of the head. Manner of death is

After Thanksgiving dinner with his family, Bradford Jr went to the mall. Gunfire broke out. A witness said he heard

multiple gunshots and later walked by Bradford's body. A 12-year-old girl and an 18-year-old man were injured. 

Initially, Hoover police identified Bradford as the suspect. They later said he was not the suspect, but had

"brandished" a gun. Police backed off that claim too. A week after the shooting, a suspect was arrested in Georgia. 

In the days after the shooting, vigils took place across suburban Birmingham. Protesters took to the streets,

blocking cars and holding up signs demanding "Justice for EJ". Relatives arrived from around the country and

families brought children to show them peaceful protests. Bradford's mother and father spoke at a community

meeting in a Baptist church that was central to the civil rights movement in the 1960s. 

A veteran of that movement, the Rev Jesse Jackson, delivered the eulogy at Bradford's funeral on Saturday and

attended a press conference on Monday. 

Until they commissioned the private autopsy, Bradford's parents said, they had no idea what happened to their

son. They and Crump, the attorney, said they had asked repeatedly for police and state agencies to release any

videos of the incident. 

The Hoover police department said in a statement: "We encourage Attorney Benjamin Crump and the Bradford

family to submit the Preliminary Anatomical Review to the Alabama law Enforcement Agency (Alea) so this new

information becomes a part of the official investigation." 

Crump said his team passed the results to the Jefferson county medical examiner before informing the public, and

the medical examiner should have shared the results with Alea. 

Almost immediately after Bradford died, Alea took over the investigation. The state agency has requested videos

and other information not be released "at the risk of compromising the justice process for everyone involved",

police said. The officer involved has not been named. Responding to the results of the private autopsy, police also

called for a thorough investigation. 

Crump said police offered the family their condolences last week. But the family has not heard from the police

again, he said. 
 
 
