Name of suspect killed in police shooting released - Tribune-Star, The
(Terre Haute, IN) - December 19, 2018
December 19, 2018 | Tribune-Star, The (Terre Haute, IN) | Lisa Trigg Tribune-Star

Update, 6:45p.m. Indiana State Police detectives are investigating an officer-involved shooting in
T erre Haute that left the suspect dead.

Killed was 24-year-old David Frederick

David Frederick of Vincennes.

State police said a West T erre Haute Officer tried to pull over a white 2018 Chevrolet Colorado for
failing to stop at a red light about 10:30 p.m. T uesday.

T he pickup truck did not stop, and a T erre Haute police officer described by that city's department
as a longtime supervisor joined the chase.

T he truck eventually pulled into a parking lot near 10 1/2 Street and Wabash Avenue, where
Frederick got out with a handgun in his hands, according to a news release from Trooper B.J.
Patterson of the Putnamville post.

Police said despite repeated commands to drop the gun, Frederick raised the gun and began to fire
at officers, who returned fire, striking Frederick several times.

A deputy Vigo County coroner pronounced Frederick dead at the scene. Neither officer was injured.

An autopsy was performed Wednesday morning by pathologist Dr. Deli Adeagbo at T erre Haute
Regional Hospital. Preliminary results indicate cause of death was multiple gunshot wounds. Family
members were notified.

ISP said its preliminary investigation revealed Frederick had recently expressed thoughts of suicide.

State police said the names of the officers involved will be released within a week. Both officers
have been placed on administrative leave, which is customary in police shootings.

Investigating were ISP Detective Don Curtis, several troopers and ISP Crime Scene Investigator
Sgt. Brandon Mullen. T he Vigo County prosecutor's and coroner's assisted.

Once the ISP investigation is complete, the report will be submitted to the Vigo County
Prosecutor's Office for review.

Update, 7 a.m. An autopsy is planned at 10 a.m. today for a 24-year-old man who died T uesday
night in an exchange of gunfire with police.

T he name of the man has not been released pending notification of relatives.

T rooper B.J. Patterson of the Indiana State Police said investigation continues into the incident,
which began about 10:30 p.m. T uesday.

A West T erre Haute Police officer attempted to stop a vehicle for running a red light but the
vehicle fled.

A T erre Haute Police officer joined the pursuit, Patterson said, and the chase ended at 10 1/2
Street and Wabash Avenue when the suspect pickup truck pulled into a parking lot just east of the
railroad tracks on the north side of Wabash.

T he driver got out of the vehicle holding a handgun. Patterson said officers commanded the man
to put down the gun, but he fired at police. Both police officers fired at the suspect, who was
pronounced dead at the scene by a coroner, Patterson said.

T he man was not wanted on any warrants.

A news release with additional information is expected to be released today.

Original Post: 5:53 a.m. Wednesday, Dec. 19, 2018

An officer-involved shooting in downtown T erre Haute is being investigated today by Indiana State
Police at Putnamville.

T he incident began late Tuesday with a police pursuit, ending near 10th Street and Wabash Avenue.

A suspect exchanged shots with police, and the suspect reportedly died at the scene.

No other details were available this morning.

Police are asking the public to avoid the area of the investigation.

T erre Haute Police posted the following information on the agency's Facebook page.

"On December 18, 2018, at approximately 10:30 P.M., a veteran supervisor with our department
assisted a West T erre Haute Police Officer with a pursuit that ended at 10th Street and Wabash
Avenue. Officers indicated the driver exited the vehicle with a handgun and an exchange of gunfire
occurred. T he male driver was pronounced deceased at the scene. Pursuant to our department
policy, the scene was immediately secured, and the investigation has been turned over to the
Indiana State Police. Neither officer was injured in the exchange."

Copyrig ht 2018, The Tribune-Star / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 