Official: Woman dies in shooting - OSBI called to - Bartlesville Examiner-
Enterprise (OK) - January 18, 2018 - page A1
January 18, 2018 | Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise (OK) | Tim Hudson | Page A1

A 72-year old Bartlesville woman has died after an officer-involved shooting Wednesday night in
west Bartlesville.

Geraldine
According to a Bartlesville Police Department update, the person shot was 72-year-old Geraldine
T ownsend.
T ownsend

BPD Capt. Jay Hastings said Bartlesville police and Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation agents
worked "through the night investigating an officer-involved shooting in the 1600 block of SW
Maple."

"T he incident began at approximately 9:30 p.m. Wednesday. Six Bartlesville police officers were at
the residence in the process of serving a search warrant for the sale of illegal drugs," he said.

"Four officers entered into the residence and encountered 50-year-old Mike Anthony Livingston
who was the suspect in the sale of illegal drugs. While taking Livingston into custody officers heard
shots and two officers were struck with some type of projectile. T he shots came from 72-year-old
Geraldine T ownsend, who is believed to be Livingston's mother," he said.
Geraldine T ownsend

Geraldine Townsend pointing what appeared to be a semi-automatic
"Officers observed Geraldine T ownsend
handgun at them and one officer returned fire striking Townsend once in the upper body,"
Hastings said.

Hastings said one of the officers and Townsend were transported to Jane Phillips Medical Center
where Townsend later died from her injuries.

"T he officer transported to the hospital received a facial injury and was undergoing surgery this
morning to remove a projectile. T he weapon Townsend used appeared to be some type of high
powered pellet handgun which resembled a real gun," he said. "Mike Anthony Livingston was
arrested and transported to the Washington County Detention Facility."

According to jail records Livingston, was arrested on charges on charges of possession of
marijuana with intent to distribute, paraphernalia, possession of firearm or weapon in commission
of felony and feloniously possessing firearm.

"T he OSBI is handling the investigation and it will be reviewed by the Washington County District
Attorney," he said. "Since the OSBI is the investigating agency no further details can be released."

Copyrig ht 2018 Bartlesville Examiner-Enterprise, All Rights Reserved.

 