
 
May 25--JACKSON, Mich. -- Two officers involved in a fatal Easter shooting on Chittock Avenue have returned to

work, Elmer Hitt, Jackson police and fire services director, said this week. 

An administrative investigation cleared the officers of any violation of department policy, Hitt said. They were back

in uniform on May 8. 

Jackson County Prosecutor Jerry Jarzynka, meanwhile, is beginning to review a Michigan State Police

investigation, presented to him on Wednesday, May 23. 

It will be up to Jarzynka to decide whether officers are criminally responsible or were justified in shooting and

killing Christopher Lamarr Hall, who had beaten his girlfriend before he fired at police on April 1. 

Three officers, called to a report of domestic assault, exchanged gunfire with Hall, 34, outside the home he and

Heather Jurasek shared between Morrell and Rockwell streets. 

One of the officers was hit in the leg and was still recovering. Hitt said he intends to return to work. 

Jurasek also was hurt in the shooting. She had a bullet lodged in her pelvis and other grazing wounds. 

Hall died at the scene, in the lawn next to Jurasek. 

A state police detective from the Lansing-based First District Special Investigation Section brought Jarzynka a

binder of the agency's findings. Jarzynka expected it would take some time to review the case. 

The Jackson officers were not wearing body cameras -- the city just approved purchase of such cameras in March

-- and there was not direct patrol vehicle footage, the prosecutor said. 

Last week, Jarzynka released a written opinion clearing five officers, two of them from the Jackson Police

Department, of any wrongdoing for firing at Kenneth Scott Townley on March 11 in the area of Tyson and Watts

streets in Blackman Township. Townley, suspected of robbing a dollar store minutes earlier, soon after died at

Henry Ford Allegiance Health. 

Video from one of the officers' vehicles clearly showed Townley failing to heed police commands and raising what

appeared to be a gun. It was later determined to be an Airsoft pistol. 

CREDIT: By Danielle Salisbury 
 
 
