Owasso police release video of deadly encounter - Tulsa World (OK) -
April 2, 2018
April 2, 2018 | Tulsa World (OK) | Staff Writer Kyle Hinchey

T he Owasso Police Department has released the names of two officers who shot and killed a
reported military veteran who pointed a loaded AK-47 and a handgun at them in addition to lapel-
cam footage of the deadly encounter.

Officers Casey Lawson and Laura Lehner responded to reports of a man, identified as 39-year-old
Duane Preciado
Duane Preciado , threatening suicide at a residence on 108th Place North in the Lake Valley
Addition on the night of March 21.

When they arrived, the officers made contact with Preciado, who they were told was a veteran of
the war in Afghanistan, at the front door of the home.

Preciado threatened to shoot the two within seconds of Lawson and Lehner identifying themselves
as officers, according to a statement from Owasso Police Chief Scott Chambless. One of the
officers reportedly saw the man carrying what he believed to be a rifle or shotgun, prompting them
to retreat and take cover behind a vehicle in a neighboring driveway.

As they moved away from the house, the officers heard what sounded like a bullet being
chambered into a gun, Chambless said in the statement.

Lawson and Lehner waited for backup as they discussed "their options to handle the situation
safely." Preciado allegedly continued yelling at the officers that he was going to start shooting and
kill them.

T he suspect eventually exited the home and began walking toward the officers' patrol vehicles
while holding a loaded AK-47 rifle and a loaded handgun while yelling, "Kill me, kill me," Chambless
said.

Officers reportedly yelled at the man to drop the guns, to which he responded by shouting, "F- —
you."

Preciado turned toward the officers and raised both guns in their direction, which resulted in
Lawson and Lehner opening fire, according to Chambless. T he confrontation lasted less than five
minutes.

Chambless said officers are able to de-escalate a situation or use non-lethal force in the majority
of incidents but that Preciado gave them "no choice but to defend their lives and the lives of
innocent citizens in the neighborhood."

"Mr. Preciado spent many years in defense of our country," Chambless said. "His life should be

honored for this service and not tarnished by the choices he made on this one day."

Footage from Lehner's lapel cam shows her and her partner standing on Preciado's porch and
trying to communicate with him through the closed door. Near the beginning of the video,
Preciado can be heard demanding the officers to get out of his house before he shoots them.

Lehner tells him not to threaten them and says they're not there to hurt him, while also informing
him that they're not in his house. T he officers back up as the threats continue.

"All righty then," Lehner can be heard saying to her partner. "Let's f---ing play this game."

When an officer sees a gun through a door window, the officers retreat to a nearby car. Shortly
later, both officers repeatedly tell the man to drop the gun before firing multiple shots at him. T he
actual shooting cannot be seen because it's dark outside, but a moaning Preciado comes into view
when the officers approach him as he's lying in the front yard.

Lehner tells him to roll over, to which he continues to respond with, "F- — you." She then kicks a
pistol away from him while Lawson places him in handcuffs.

"Dude, we did not want to do that," Lawson can be heard telling him.

T oward the end of the video, Lehner can be heard saying she believed she fired her gun twice, while
Lawson says he thought he fired once.

Rogers County District Attorney Matt Ballard said in a statement that his office has not requested
any further information and is satified the investigation is complete after reviewing evidence
collected by the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation.

Ballard said he will announce his formal findings when the final report is complete, which he believes
will be soon.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Tulsa World. World Publishing  Co.

 