Community grieves for Archer Amorosi - Chanhassen Villager (MN) -
July 19, 2018
July 19, 2018 | Chanhassen Villager (MN) | Alex Chhith

T he community is grieving the loss of Archer Amorosi
County Sheriff's Office deputies that resulted in his death on Friday, July 13.

Archer Amorosi, 16, following a confrontation with Carver

T he tall, blond-haired teen played lacrosse and football at Minnetonka High School and would have
started his junior year this fall. T eammates, friends and families shared their memories of young
Amorosi, some tagged their posts on T witter with # Astrong.

Minnetonka High School Principal Jeff Erickson sent out a note the morning following his death to
parents and students, commemorating Amorosi.

"T his situation is heartbreaking, and I want to extend my thoughts and prayers to Archer's parents
and family, his friends, and the entire Minnetonka High School community. I know this situation is
particularly devastating to those of you who knew Archer well," Erickson stated.

"Archer was talented — in and out of the classroom — and greatly enjoyed representing MHS in
athletic competition. Archer excelled in lacrosse and football — most notably this spring as
lacrosse was in the run for the state championship. He had a strong group of friends and highly
valued those relationships. He will be deeply missed."

Erickson encouraged parents to check in with their children to see how they are doing.
"Minnetonka Schools' Student Support website also lists crisis hotlines for immediate support and
resources for coping with grief," he noted. Beginning Monday, counselors and support staff were
available at Minnetonka High School, if students wanted to talk about Amorosi's death.

Erickson also asked, "Students, please look out for each other and take care of yourself. It is
important to share how you are feeling with a friend or caring adult."

"T onka, we are a strong community. We all draw support and strength from our community, not
only during the moments of joy, but during these times of loss. We need to use this strength to
look after and care for each other."

On Wednesday evening, the Minnetonka lacrosse team played a game against Lakeville North at
its high school in remembrance of Amorosi, who wore No. 25 on the team.

"It is with a heavy heart that we have to say this, but unfortunately we lost one of our teammates
today," the Minnetonka High School lacrosse team's T witter account posted. "Archer Amorosi
Archer Amorosi
was a high energy, funny and loving kid who will always be remembered by this team and
community."

"Rest easy, Archer, we will miss you incredibly and love you forever," the Tweet continued.

SHOOT ING

T he two deputies who shot Amorosi are on paid administrative leave while the Bureau of Criminal
Apprehension investigates the case.

Multiple law enforcement agencies responded to the July 13 shooting, at a home on the 6400 block
of Oriole Avenue in north Chanhassen. T he previous day, two Sheriff's Office units had visited the
same address, according to the sheriff's blotter.

At about 10 a.m. July 13, the teen's mother called authorities and said her son was suicidal and was
threatening her with knives and a baseball bat, according to a BCA press release.

"Deputies arrived and encountered a 16-year-old male and deployed a T aser. At one point during
the encounter, two Carver County deputies fired their weapons, striking the individual. He was
pronounced deceased at the scene," it continued. Amorosi died at 10:35 a.m., according to a
Midwest Examiner's Office press release.

"T he cause of death is multiple gunshot wounds. T he manner is homicide," stated the release. "No
other information will be released regarding this case and death investigation by the Midwest
Medical Examiner's Office."

One deputy was transported to 212 Medical Center in Chaska for non-life-threatening injuries. He
was treated and released.

T he BCA is investigating the incident.

"T he BCA will conduct a thorough investigation and gather all of the evidence and then turn its
findings over without recommendation to the Carver County Attorney's Office for review," the
release stated.

FUNERAL

Funeral services for Archer Amorosi
Church in Chanhassen.

Archer Amorosi were held on Wednesday, July 18, at Westwood Community

"Archer had a magnetic personality and never hesitated to help someone who he knew was
struggling," stated his obituary in the Star T ribune.

"It has been a sad and simply heartbreaking few days for our community. Archer was loved by
many and will be missed," Erickson stated in a letter to the community.

"Please continue to hold Archer's family and friends in your thoughts and prayers."

Copyrig ht, 2018, Chanhassen Villag er (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 