Official cause of death released in July 13 - Eden Prairie News (MN) -
July 16, 2018
July 16, 2018 | Eden Prairie News (MN) | Mark Olson

T he Midwest Medical Examiner released its report regarding the 16-year-old Chanhassen boy who
died following an officer-involved shooting Friday morning.

According to the medical examiner, the name of the deceased teen, which had not been officially
Archer Amorosi.
released, was Archer Amorosi

Amorosi died at 10:35 a.m. Friday, July 13 at an Oriole Lane home in Chanhassen. "T he cause of
death is multiple gunshot wounds. T he manner is homicide," stated the release, which noted that
Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is also investigating.

"No other information will be released regarding this case and death investigation by the Midwest
Medical Examiner's Office."

T he teen's mother called authorities and said her son was suicidal and was threatening her with
knives and a baseball bat at 10 a.m. at a home, according to a Bureau of Criminal Apprehension
press release.

"Deputies arrived and encountered a 16-year-old male and deployed a T aser. At one point during
the encounter, two Carver County deputies fired their weapons, striking the individual. He was
pronounced deceased at the scene."

SCHOOL RESPONSE

Minnetonka High School Principal Jeff Erickson sent a Saturday morning note to parents and
students regarding Amorosi, an incoming junior at the school.

"T his situation is heartbreaking and I want to extend my thoughts and prayers to Archer's parents
and family, his friends, and the entire Minnetonka High School community. I know this situation is
particularly devastating to those of you who knew Archer well," Erickson stated.

"Archer was talented – in and out of the classroom – and greatly enjoyed representing MHS in
athletic competition. Archer excelled in lacrosse and football – most notably this spring as lacrosse
was in the run for the State championship. He had a strong group of friends and highly valued
those relationships. He will be deeply missed."

Erickson encouraged parents to check in with their children to see how they are doing.
"Minnetonka Schools' Student Support Website also lists crisis hotlines for immediate support and
resources for coping with grief," he noted. Beginning Monday, counselors and support staff were
available at Minnetonka High School, if students wanted to talk about Amorosi's death.

He also asked that "Students, please look out for each other and take care of yourself. It is
important to share how you are feeling with a friend or caring adult."

"T onka, we are a strong community. We all draw support and strength from our community, not
only during the moments of joy, but during these times of loss. We need to use this strength to
look after and care for each other."

Copyrig ht, 2018, Eden Prairie News (MN). All Rights Reserved.

 