Traffic stop in Pike County leads to officer- - Athens Messenger, The
(OH) - February 3, 2018
February 3, 2018 | Athens Messenger, The (OH) | Staff Report

Note: T his story appears in the Sunday, Feb. 4 newspaper on Page A3.

PIKET ON — What reportedly began as a traffic stop on Route 124 near Piketon early T hursday
morning became deadly, ending up in the fatal shooting of a man by a Pike County deputy.

On Thursday afternoon, Pike County Prosecuting Attorney Rob Junk confirmed the man shot and
killed was James M . B urks
through Pike County Court, one for driving under a DUI suspension and one for domestic violence.

James M . Burks , 35, of Peebles. According to Junk, Burks had two active warrants

T he name of the deputy has not yet been released.

According to Pike County Sheriff Charles Reader, the incident began when a Pike County deputy
attempted to make a traffic stop on Route 124 early Thursday morning at 3:59 a.m. T he sheriff
reported the other vehicle pulled off the road and three subjects fled from the vehicle.

"T he deputy gave chase on foot where he made contact with one of the fleeing subjects and a
physical altercation and/or incident took place that ultimately resulted in an officer-involved
shooting where the suspect died due to the injuries he sustained," Reader stated.

Reader said that he was contacted at 4:17 a.m. along with the chief deputy and other deputies to
respond to the scene.

"Upon arrival to the scene, I contacted BCI Crime Scene Division and the Franklin County Sheriff's
Office (Officer Involved Shooting Investigative Unit) to respond and take over the situation,"
Reader stated. "T he Waverly Police Department, Piketon Police Department, Pike County
Prosecuting Attorney Rob Junk and the Ohio State Highway Patrol also responded to the scene."

T he sheriff said the deputy was transported to Adena/Pike Medical Center, where he was treated
and released. Reader said the deputy has been placed on paid administrative leave as per a union
contract until the investigation is completed and it is determined that he can return to work.

A nearby residence was entered by the Pike County Sheriff's Office Special Response T eam,
Reader said, assisted by the Ohio State Highway Patrol. Two males and three females were
reportedly removed from the residence and transported to the sheriff's office to be interviewed,
Reader said.

T he sheriff said the investigation has been turned over to the BCI Crime Scene and the Franklin
County Sheriff's Office.

"T his is to insure that the investigation is completely independent of my office," Reader stated. "My
thoughts and prayers go out to my deputy and his family and to the family of the deceased."

Copyrig ht © 2018 Athens Messeng er, APG Media of Ohio LLC. All rights reserved.

 