OFFICER-INVOLVED SHOOTING/PIKE COUNTY - Deputy - Columbus
Dispatch, The (OH) - February 8, 2018 - page 6B
February 8, 2018 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Holly Zachariah | Page 6B

T he Pike County sheriff's office has identified Erik Zirneskie as the deputy who shot and killed a
man after a foot chase and struggle last week.

Zirneskie, 25, has been with the sheriff's office since August 2016, according to his personnel file.

As is routine in an officer-involved shooting, he has been placed on paid leave since the death of
James M . Burks . Pike County Sheriff Charles Reader called in an outside agency to
35-year-old James M . B urks
handle an independent investigation into the deputy's actions that night, which also is standard
practice. T he Franklin County sheriff's office is doing that.

Reader said last week that Zirneskie had seen a suspicious vehicle just before 4 a.m. on Feb. 1 in
the parking lot of a closed business on Route 124 in the western part of Pike County. T he car
pulled out and Zirneskie followed and tried to make a traffic stop.

Reader said the car pulled into a private driveway and three people inside scattered and ran. He
said Burks was among them.

Zirneskie gave chase and the two scuffled, Reader said. Burks was shot during the scuffle and died
at the scene, the sheriff said. No one has said how many times Burks was shot. Zirneskie was
treated at a hospital and released.

Burks had a history of violence and two outstanding warrants for his arrest. An obituary said his
survivors include five daughters and a son.

According to Zirneskie's personnel file, he has previously worked part time for the Put-In-Bay
Police Department on South Bass Island on Lake Erie and held a couple of reserve posts
elsewhere.

A department use-of-force log says that during his tenure, Zirneskie has used his Taser and
pepper spray in separate incidents.

His file notes that his initial probationary status with the sheriff's office has been extended because
he has been late for work and has not maintained his personal appearance or his cruiser.

hzachariah@dispatch.com

@hollyzachariah

Copyrig ht 2018 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 