Man slain in shootout with police - 2 - Beacon News, The (Aurora, IL) -
March 25, 2018 - page 1
March 25, 2018 | Beacon News, The (Aurora, IL) | Hannah Leone | Page 1

A 36-year-old Aurora man killed Thursday night during a downtown shootout with police was free
on bond for felony charges related to illegally possessing a gun March 18.

"He was able to bond out, that is his constitutional right," Aurora Police Chief Kristen Ziman said
during a news conference Friday at the Police Department on East Indian T rail Road. "...
Unfortunately this was the outcome. He was in possession of another firearm."

During the shootout, an Aurora police investigator was shot in the leg, suffering what police
described as a graze wound. Another investigator's shoulder was injured when he was taking cover
from the gunfire, police said.

"It's unfortunate that a criminal decided to carry a gun and fire upon police officers last night, and
it's a shame there was a loss of life because of that criminal action," said Aurora Mayor Richard
Irvin at the news conference.

"Yet the quick actions and preparedness of our officers prevented the situation from escalating
and being much, much worse, ensuring that no innocent bystanders were harmed."

Santiag o Calderon, 36, of Aurora, was driving an SUV followed by investigators with
Ziman said Santiag o Calderon
the department's special operations group. T he investigators were wearing tactical uniforms and
driving an unmarked police vehicle that is not equipped with in-squad video cameras, Ziman said.
Aurora police officers do not have body cameras.

Calderon's autopsy was performed Friday by the Kane County coroner. Coroner Rob Russell listed
the cause of death as multiple gunshot wounds, according to a release from his office.

Around 9:45 p.m. T hursday, Ziman said, the investigators followed a green Chevrolet SUV driven by
Calderon, with a 24-year-old Aurora man as a passenger, from a "known gang house" on the 200
block of South Lake Street to the first block of East Galena Boulevard, where they had it pull over.
Police did not say how long the investigators had been watching the house before they saw the
SUV leave.

Ziman said the stop was called in before the shooting, and the unmarked squad car had blue and
red lights that were activated during the stop. Ziman said she was unclear on why the car was
stopped.

Calderon shot at officers, then drove away eastbound, striking a 2009 Chevrolet Malibu at Galena
and Route 25, Ziman said. T he Malibu's driver, a 19-year-old Aurora man, was its only occupant
and declined medical treatment, Ziman said.

After the crash, Calderon ran from the SUV, exchanging gunfire with two investigators, police said.

"During the exchange of gunfire, Calderon was fatally shot in the parking lot on South LaSalle
Street between Galena and Downer Place," Ziman said.

T he officers went to render aid and saw a gun at Calderon's side, Ziman said. He was pronounced
dead at the scene, she said.

Both investigators were treated and released from an Aurora hospital, police said.

Responding officers took Calderon's passenger, who remained at the scene, into custody and have
since released him without charges, Ziman said.

"I want to express my sympathy to the family of Mr. Calderon," Ziman said. "Despite his actions
that resulted in this outcome, we know he is a father and a son, and that is not lost on us. Our
police officers did an exemplary job last night. T hey were engaged in proactive policing, and when
the offender opened fire upon them, they responded courageously and rapidly to contain the
threat."

Ziman said the investigators involved, Matthew Huber and Colin Griffin, have each been with the
department for 10 years. Both are on paid administrative leave while the case is under
investigation, which is standard with an officer-involved shooting, Ziman said.

Ziman said she believed investigators used the proper force. "When officers are fired upon, we are
going to respond," she said.

T hough the investigators' car did not have video, Ziman said police are getting footage from
witnesses, and some responding squad cars had cameras. T he independent task force heading the
investigation is also in the process of determining whether any surveillance cameras on nearby
buildings caught the shooting, Ziman said.

T he Kane County Major Crimes T ask Force is handling the investigation into the officer-involved
shooting.

While the shooting occurred downtown, Ziman said downtown is still "very safe."

Calderon had appeared in Aurora Branch Court Monday, when Associate Judge Sandra Parga set
his bail at $75,000.

After Calderon didn't appear for a status hearing at 9 a.m. Wednesday at the county judicial center
in St. Charles, Kane County Associate Judge David Kliment ordered a warrant issued for his arrest,
setting bail at $150,000.

Charges filed against Calderon allege that on March 18, while in a vehicle, he illegally had a semi-
automatic handgun, uncased and unloaded with ammunition immediately accessible.

He did not have a valid firearm owner's identification card, and was previously convicted of a
felony, according to the pending charges, which included two class 2 felony counts of aggravated
unlawful use of a weapon, a class 3 felony count of possession of a firearm, and a class 4 count of
aggravated use of a loaded weapon.

Calderon was also facing pending felony aggravated domestic battery charges from March 2016.

Chicago Tribune's Madeline Buckley contributed.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Beacon News. All rights reserved. REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED.

 