Footage shows Minnesota man raised gun before - Associated Press
State Wire: Minnesota (MN) - August 17, 2018
August 17, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN)

ST . PAUL, Minn. (AP) — Police in St. Paul released body camera footage Friday that shows a man
was armed with a gun before officers shot and killed him during an early morning confrontation.

Officers Matthew Jones and Vincent Adams shot William James Hug hes
building porch Aug. 5. Hughes' family has questioned why he had to die.

William James Hug hes , 43, on an apartment

State investigators are still reviewing the incident but Police Chief T odd Axtell took the unusual step
of releasing the officers' bodycam footage before the probe is complete. Axtell said during a news
conference before showing the video to reporters that the shooting has generated "widespread
rumors and falsehoods" that could erode public trust in police and place officers in danger.

T he footage shows Jones and Adams enter the enclosed porch and knock on a door. Hughes
emerges from another door with a pistol in his right hand. As the officers yell at him to put his
hands up, he moves the gun toward the ceiling. T he pistol momentarily points toward the officers
as he swings it upward and one or both of them open fire.

A search warrant application the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension filed this week
indicates the incident began when Hughes became angry and fired two or three shots into a wall
and then pointed his gun at his roommate's head. T he roommate fled and called police.

Hughes was a member of the White Earth Nation, an Ojibwe band based in northern Minnesota.
Relatives told investigators he had been suicidal over a terminal illness that limited his quality of life,
according to the warrant application.

Axtell said he had watched the footage with Hughes' family. He held up two envelopes at the news
conference saying they contained cards Hughes' sister asked him to deliver to Adams and Jones.

"T his is the first time in my 30-year career that I've ever seen such grace by a family met by such a
tragedy," Axtell said.

Ramsey County Attorney John Choi issued a statement saying the video is hard to watch but is just
one piece of evidence in the case. T he BCA is relaying information daily and he plans to analyze all
the data before deciding whether the shooting was justified, Choi said.

John Gordon, executive director of the Minnesota chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union,
issued a statement questioning whether officers truly had to fire.

"Having a gun, in and of itself, is not reason enough for someone to be shot," Gordon said.
"Officers need extensive training on how to secure an area and de-escalate dangerous situations

so that shootings are a last resort, not a routine practice. T hat, unfortunately, did not happen for
William Hughes."

St. Paul Mayor Melvin Carter issued a statement saying the footage is "heartbreaking" and the city
wishes the shooting had never happened.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 