
 
Tabitha Choates could tell her cousin was struggling.  

When Sidney Richardson IVcame over to her north Tampa home for dinner last Saturday, there was a look in the

former U.S. Marine's eye that troubled her.  

"Little by little, you could tell his mind was walking away from him," Choates said in her first interview since a

Tampa police officer fatally shot Richardson last week. "He was losing focus and things he was saying didn't make

sense."  

At one point, the cousins prayed together, with Richardson asking God to protect their family's women from

rapists. It was a strange plea, but Choates wasn't alarmed. Richardson had been grappling with post-traumatic

stress disorder and paranoia, his family said, but he'd never been violent.  

But as dinner was cooking, Richardson picked up a machete.  

Minutes later, the 48-year-old Brandon man was dead, shot after he barricaded himself inside a bedroom with

Choates' 17-year-old daughter.  

Richardson's family is now left to wonder what came over the man they knew, and whether police could have

gotten the girl out safely without killing a man in the apparent grip of a mental health crisis. They said Richardson

was behaving more erratically in the days leading up to the shooting. Records show he spoke to police at least

three separate times on the day before he was killed to warn them that people around him were in danger.  

"He loved his family," said his son, Sidney Richardson V. "In his eyes, he was protecting us. We tried our best to let

him know everything was okay, but in his mind, it wasn't."  

- - -  

The younger Richardson said he first noticed the paranoia after his father left the military.  

Richardson spent a dozen years in the U.S. Marines Corps, six in the reserves and six on active duty, records show.

He served in Iraq in 2002 and then in Africa, according to friends and family.  

In 2008, he received a bad conduct discharge after a court martial found him guilty of larceny, records show.

Details of the case were not available this week.  

Richardson believed he was being spied on, his family said. About two years ago, he called his son and said he had

fled to Canada because someone was trying to kill him.  

His family and friends never felt unsafe around him, though. He wasn't violent and they could usually calm him

down when he had paranoid episodes.  

"He was kind-hearted, great company," said Choates, a mother of three. "If you needed him, he was there for you.''  

Richards was officially diagnosed with PTSD about a year ago and had attended some group therapy sessions,

said his friend, Michelle Williams.  

But by last week, at least some family members decided he needed more acute care.  

The day before the shooting, a Hillsborough sheriff's deputy responding to a suspicious person call met with

Richardson at his apartment.  

"Richardson began to tell me that he believed the children in the neighborhood were telling him that they were

being controlled by pedophiles," the deputy wrote in a report. The children, Richardson told the deputy, were

communicating this through the color of their clothing.  

The deputy concluded that Richardson didn't meet the criteria to be taken into protective custody under the state's

Baker Act because he wasn't threatening to harm himself or others.  

The younger Richardson said the deputy called him and asked about his father's mental health history because he

was showing signs of schizophrenia. The deputy suggested he file a petition to have his father committed for a

mental health evaluation.  

The son wrestled with the decision.  

"I called my uncle to make sure I was doing the right thing and he said, 'Yeah, you should do it,'" Richardson said.  

An hour later, his father showed up at his son's apartment. He told him someone was going to try to hurt him. His

son tried to ease his fears.  

"It was the worst I'd ever seen him," Richardson said.  

At about 10:50 p.m., the elder Richardson called Tampa police and told a dispatcher that a woman in his son's

apartment complex had been yelling, "Rape, please help," for about half an hour. None of the residents a

responding officer spoke with heard anything like what Richardson reported, police said.  

An hour later, Richardson walked into TPD's north Tampa office and asked to speak with an officer, preferably a

Marine, records show. The dispatcher referred to Richardson as a "possible" signal 20, or mentally ill person.  

An officer who was also a Marine veteran spoke with Richardson, who complained about drugs and prostitution at

his son's apartment complex, Tampa police spokesman Steve Hegarty said. The officer sensed that Richardson

might have mental health issues and offered to drive him to the VA, Hegarty said. Richardson declined, saying he

was fine. The officer let him go because he did not fit the criteria to be taken into custody for the Baker Act,

Hegarty said.  

- - -  

The next day, Choates invited Richardson over for dinner.  

"To get him out of the house," she said, "and into a loving atmosphere."  

Choates decided to go out for burgers for her kids. She said the trouble began when her husband and uncle, who

were also home, suggested to Richardson that they all go to the store.  

Richardson told his family he didn't want to leave Choates' oldest daughter, Jess, alone. Minutes later, Choates got

a call from her husband saying Richardson had become agitated, armed himself with a machete and locked them

out. Jess was still in the house.  

Choates returned and police officers arrived. She said officers spent about five minutes outside trying to get

Richardson to open the door, then let themselves in with a key. Richardson and Jess were locked in a bedroom.  

Choates said officers spent about 15 minutes outside the door trying to convince Richardson that they just wanted

Jess out safely. Jess would later tell her mother that Richardson told her he was about to kill some people. She

said he spoke into an imaginary walkie talkie on his shoulder, asking for backup.  

According to the police department's account, Cpl. Salvatore Mazza and Officer Juan Hernandez kicked in the door

of the bedroom and ordered Richardson to drop the machete. Mazza used his stun gun on Richardson, but it didn't

work. It is still unclear why.  

screaming.  

Officer Juan Hernandez then opened fire. Choates heard at least five shots, and then her daughter ran out

The shooting is still under investigation, but in an interview this week, police Chief Brian Dugan defended the

officers' actions. He said officers are trained to de-escalate situations involving unstable people but Mazza and

Hernandez had to act fast once they got into the tight confines of the bedroom.  

"The girl was in danger," Dugan said. "We couldn't just retreat and give him space.''  

Choates said she understands the officers were acting in her daughter's best interest.  

"I feel like they did what they needed to do to get my child out of the room and protect her," she said. "The Sidney

that everybody knows was not the Sidney shot by police."  

Times staff writer Howard Altman contributed to this report. Contact Tony Marrero at tmarrero@tampabay.com or

Shootings; Mental health care; Post traumatic stress disorder

Africa United States--US Canada Iraq

Publication title:

Tampa Bay Times; Tampa Bay

(813) 226-3374. Follow @tmarrerotimes. 

Credit: TONY MARRERO, TIMES STAFF WRITER 
 
 
