TBI Continues Probe Into Officer-Involved Shooting - Greeneville Sun,
The (TN) - March 19, 2018
March 19, 2018 | Greeneville Sun, The (TN) | Ken Little Staff Writer

T he Tennessee Bureau of Investigation continues its investigation into an officer-involved
shooting incident Friday afternoon in Jonesborough.

T he knife-wielding man shot by a police officer died, according to a news release from the T BI.

T he man is identified by the T BI as M ark Clinton H arrell

M ark Clinton Harrell Jr., 26, of Church Hill.

T he news release said that just before 1 p.m. Friday, Jonesborough police officers received a
complaint about possible drug activity at a hotel on East Jackson Boulevard and Highway U.S. 11E.

On arrival, officers encountered a man in the parking lot. He "displayed a large knife and
threatened to harm himself before leading officers on a foot pursuit," according to the news
release.

T he foot pursuit crossed over East Jackson Boulevard and ended in the 400 block of the road.
Officers continued to give the man orders to drop the weapon, but he refused to comply, the
report says.

"At some point during the second confrontation, the subject reportedly moved toward one of the
officers with the knife. T he situation further escalated and resulted in the officer firing his service
weapon, striking the subject," the release says.

T he man, who was not identified, was taken to a nearby hospital, where he was pronounced dead.

No officers were injured during the incident.

"T BI special agents will gather any and all relevant interviews and evidence as part of this ongoing
investigation," the release says.

T he T BI was requested to investigate the shooting incident by Tony Clark, 1st Judicial District
attorney general, whose district includes Washington County.

"T hroughout the process, agents will submit investigative findings to (Clark) for his review and
consideration," the release said.

T he T BI "does not identify officers involved in these types of incidents and instead refers questions
of that nature to their respective department," the release adds.

Copyrig ht 2018, Greeneville Sun, All Rights Reserved.

 