
 
July 14--A 22-year-old man is in critical condition after being shot in the head early Friday morning in the 600 block

of Maryland Avenue in J.J. Raigoza Park on the South Side. 

Police responded to the scene on a report of a shooting and found the suspect, who police have identified but

whose name has not been released. 

The victim was still in critical condition at a local hospital as of Friday evening. 

No arrests have been made and detectives are investigating. 

Police are urging those with information about the shooting to submit a tip. 

To remain anonymous, contact Pueblo Crime Stoppers at 542STOP (542-7867) or go to pueblocrimestoppers. com.

If your information leads to a felony arrest, you could be eligible for a cash reward. 

Officer ID'd in July 4 shooting 

identified as Jordan Roberts. 

The officer who shot and killed a stabbing suspect in the 1200 block of East Abriendo Avenue on July 4 has been

Roberts has worked with the Pueblo Police Department since 2016. 

Roberts was the first officer on the scene of a family disturbance call on Independence Day when he encountered

Emmanuel Bitsuie, 32, who had reportedly stabbed his 52-year-old uncle, David Bitsuie. 

Emmanuel Bitsuie died at the scene, and David Bitsuie was transported to a local hospital, where he later died of

his injuries. 

The 10th Judicial Critical Incident Team is investigating the matter. 

Dog saved from structure fire 

The Pueblo Fire Department was called to a structure fire in the 2700 block of Lowell Avenue just before 1 p.m.

Friday and, thanks to a quick response, were able to save the home as well as a dog trapped inside. 

The resident of the home, an adult male, was not inside at the time of the fire and a dog that appeared to be of a pit

bull breed was rescued from the burning property without suffering significant injuries. 

Multiple units responded to the scene in the residential area. Pueblo Fire Department officials indicated the fire

appears to have been accidental and electrical in nature. 

Due to significant smoke and fire damage, the home was considered to be unlivable, but the structure was not

destroyed. 

Safe Streets seeking two 

The Southern Colorado Safe Streets Task Force is attempting to locate two wanted street criminals. 

Missy Fuentes, 30, is described as an Hispanic female, 5-feet tall, weighing 170 pounds with brown hair and brown

eyes. She has three no-bond warrants that include a parole violation, assault, dangerous drugs and flight/ escape. 

John Parsons, 25, is described as a white male, 5-feet-10-inches tall, weighing 166 pounds with brown hair and

brown eyes. 

amount is $10,750. 

Parsons has seven warrants for failure to appear that include the following charges: possession of a controlled

substance, six counts of owning a dangerous dog causing injury or death to animals, failing to report an accident,

two counts of violation of a protection order, careless driving and driving under the influence. His total bond

Anyone with information regarding these suspects is encouraged to contact Pueblo police. 

To remain anonymous, contact Pueblo Crime Stoppers at 542STOP (542-7867) or go to pueblocrimestoppers. com.

If your information leads to a felony arrest, you could be eligible for a cash reward. 

The Pueblo Police Department was called to the 1600 block of Moore Avenue at approximately 6 p.m. Thursday to

investigate a report of motor vehicle theft. 

The victim told police that her 2002 Ford Explorer, valued at $4,500, had been taken by a friend of hers without her

SUV Stolen 

Beulah Heights 

permission. 

Police are investigating. 

Arrests 

Andy Eugene Avalos, 33, of the 1300 block of Berkley Avenue, was arrested Thursday on suspicion of first-degree

aggravated motor vehicle theft. He was being held at jail without bail pending a court appearance. 

Mark Henry Beigert, 44, of Pueblo West, was arrested Thursday on a warrant for second-degree assault,

strangulation and stalking. He was being held at jail without bail pending a court appearance. 

Tony L. Estrada, 28, of Colorado Springs, was arrested Thursday on suspicion of unlawful possession of a

controlled substance. He was being held at jail without bail pending a court appearance. 

zhillstrom@chieftain. com Pueblo Crime Stoppers, 542-STOP. Remember, your call is anonymous. 

Fire stations; Fires; Independence Day; Criminal investigations; Stabbings; Injuries

Company / organization:

Name: Ford Motor Co; NAICS: 333924, 336111, 336390; Name: Crime Stoppers;

CREDIT: By Zach Hillstrom 
 
 
