GBI not finished looking into shootings - Walton Tribune, The (Monroe,
GA) - October 3, 2018
October 3, 2018 | Walton Tribune, The (Monroe, GA) | David Clemons | Walton Tribune

MONROE, Ga. — T he state is continuing to look into two police shootings from the last four
months.

T wice — once in June on Lovers Lane and again in July on Social Circle-Fairplay Road — local law
enforcement shot at suspects. T he Georgia Bureau of Investigation was called in to investigate
and turn over its findings to the Alcovy Circuit district attorney's office.

But that hasn't happened yet.

"Investigating agencies are waiting on additional tests," Nelly Miles, director of the GBI Office of
Public Affairs, told T he Walton T ribune.

On June 12, Walton County sheriff's deputies were called to a home at 3775 Lovers Lane, Monroe,
about a disturbance involving a family member with a gun.

Chauvis Hollis, 26, reportedly was exhibiting erratic behavior. Multiple deputies entered the home
along with a family member in an attempt to calm Hollis. During the encounter, Hollis raised his
gun and fired it, striking the family member.

One deputy reportedly returned fire, striking Hollis and killing him. T he relative survived and no
officers were injured.

On July 26, a man later identified as 43-year-old William Earnest B rooks
by agents from numerous agencies.

William Earnest B rooks  died after behind shot at

Deputies got a call of an intruder riding an AT V outside a home on Social Circle-Fairplay Road. He
ran from the first deputies who arrived, leading to a physical altercation in which Brooks
overpowered a deputy, who drew his service weapon and fired one round.

It's unknown if Brooks was hit then, but Brooks took the gun and ran deeper into the woods. By
this point more deputies, plus state troopers, Social Circle police officers and Georgia Department
of Natural Resources rangers arrived on scene.

A Georgia State Patrol helicopter saw Brooks turn toward the shoreline of Hard Labor Creek
Reservoir and brandish a weapon.

Multiple officers from the Sheriff's Office and one officer from the Social Circle Police Department
fired at Brooks, who died on the scene.

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Walton Tribune

 