Officer involved in his 6th shooting - Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) -
March 27, 2018 - page 1B
March 27, 2018 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Beth Burger | Page 1B

Some police officers go their entire career without having to draw their guns and fire a single
round.

Others seem to find trouble, or trouble finds them.

Glenn T hivener, 50, a SWAT  team member, has shot and killed four people during his 29-year
career as a Columbus police officer. He's wounded two others.

Kaitlin Marie Demeo
Kaitlin Marie Demeo  was barricaded with a rifle in a Southeast Side house during a standoff
lasting more than three hours Saturday.

She fired off rounds hitting a nearby home and, in response, T hivener and another SWAT  officer,
46-year-old Keith Kise returned fire. She was pronounced dead at the scene. It was Kise's second
shooting.

All of T hivener's shootings before Saturday morning's incident have been ruled justified. It will be
months before a grand jury reviews the latest shooting, and even longer before an internal police
board reviews the level of force used.

T hivener, who has been a SWAT  team member since 2008, is often the point man as the SWAT
team enters a building. T hat means he's going to encounter a threat first, said Sgt. Dean
Worthington, a spokesman for Columbus Division of Police.

"He's point because he's good at it," Worthington said.

Experts say SWAT  officers, by the very nature of their jobs, are exposed to more high-risk
situations and therefore likely to be involved in more shootings. In T hivener's case, none of the
shootings have involved unarmed people. He's also fired alongside other officers.

T hivener's other fatal shootings were:

• Michael A. Lloyd, 48, a suspect in a string of business robberies, was under surveillance when he
entered a Donatos at 2769 Northland Plaza while wearing a mask and carrying a gun in October
2011.

• Kevin Boozer, 28, who took his girlfriend hostage with a knife held at her throat at a home on the
Far West Side in August 2012.

• Danny T hornton, 47, who went on a shooting rampage in November 2013. Thornton shot one

ex-girlfriend and then fatally shot the 9-year-old son of another ex-girlfriend in the face as the child
opened the door. T he boy died a day later.

One of the people T hivener wounded was Lincoln Rutledge, who shot and killed fellow SWAT  officer
Steven Smith.

"He's a SWAT  officer who's trained to neutralize a threat," said William T errill, a criminal justice
professor at Arizona State University.

Police departments rule that their officers are justified in their actions about 98 percent of the time,
T errill said.

In a post-Ferguson era, where questionable officer-involved shootings resulting in death are highly
publicized across the country, some may question an officer's involvement in so many shootings.

Police often refer to seasoned criminals as repeat offenders.

"From the public's perspective, he's a 'repeat officer.' I understand that from the public view, but
from a policing perspective, that's your job," he said.

Within those perspectives, "the truth probably lies somewhere in between," T errill said.

Police often don't look at earlier shootings when evaluating an officer's latest shooting incident,
said Sean Walton, an attorney who has pending lawsuits against the city regarding some officer-
involved shootings.

"I fully believe the use of deadly force is justified in situations," he said. "But because of the process
they undertake, and the lack of investigation ... we can't tell the difference between a good shoot
and bad shoot because the process is tainted."

Walton has advocated for an independent group to investigate officer-involved shooting.

Walton also believes officers should be offered more counseling because of the level of trauma
they have inevitably been exposed to in shootings. Many return to work after a few days off, he
said.

"T here's no way someone on their sixth shooting should not be scrutinized a little bit more, offered
more counseling," Walton said. "I mean, the guy's not a machine."

T here isn't a lot of research on the cumulative trauma police officers collect, T errill said.

"T he culture of policing is, historically, this tough guy (saying): 'We don't need help,'" he said. "We
don't know about the toll it takes, especially in the long term."

bburger@dispatch.com

@ByBethBurger

Copyrig ht 2018 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 