
 
CLEVELAND  

Hearing set in 2002 murder conviction  

A court hearing is set this week to discuss the results of the Cuyahoga County prosecutor's probe into the 2002

murder conviction of a Cleveland man who maintains his innocence.  

Ru-El Sailor is set to be transferred from his Southern Ohio prison cell to the Cuyahoga County Jail on Wednesday.  

The move marks the first major development in the case since the conviction integrity unit of then-Prosecutor

Timothy J. McGinty's office twice denied Sailor's application to review his case. McGinty's challenger, Michael

O'Malley, pledged during the campaign that he would review Sailor's case.  

O'Malley's office re-opened the case after he took office in January 2017. Wednesday's hearing will determine

whether prosecutors stand by the conviction.  

A jury convicted Sailor alongside Cordell Hubbard and Nichole Hubbard of murder and other charges in the 2002

killing of Omar Clark, which came after Nichole Hubbard felt wronged in a $20 deal for a PCP-laced cigarette

involving one of Clark's friends.  

She called her brother, Cordell Hubbard, for back-up, and he came with an accomplice to confront the seller. Clark

intervened, the exchange turned violent and Clark was shot and killed.  

No physical evidence tied Sailor to the killing.  

Sailor filed multiple unsuccessful appeals seeking a new trial, despite having sworn testimony from Hubbard

saying that Sailor was innocent, and a sworn affidavit from relative of Clark's saying that another man, William

Sizemore, called him after the conviction and never mentioned Sailor being at the scene.  

Wednesday's hearing will be held in the courtroom of Judge Nancy McDonnell, who presided over the original trial.  

ELYRIA  

Man's death seen as possible homicide  

building as a suspected homicide.  

Elyria police detectives are investigating the death of a man whose body was discovered Sunday outside an office

Several juveniles found a 29-year-old man's body just before 8 p.m. on the lower part of a delivery ramp on River

Street at Clark Street, police said. His death has been deemed suspicious, police said.  

The man's name will be released once his family has been notified, police said.  

Investigators have not said how the man died.  

The Lorain County Coroner's Office will perform an autopsy to determine the cause of death, police said.  

Investigators have not released any additional details.  

CLEVELAND  

Apartment building fire displaces dozens  

A large fire broke out at a Cleveland housing complex Monday morning and spread to multiple units, leading to the

displacement of dozens of residents, officials and reports say.  

Cleveland firefighters fought a blaze at an apartment building in the Garden Valley complex, which is located in the

Kinsman neighborhood, Cleveland police spokesman Detective Reginald Lanton said.  

Fire officials say that one person was taken to the hospital, but they have not released further details on the cause

of that person's possible injuries.  

The flames affected multiple apartments on the building's third floor, Lanton said.  

The fire forced 60 people from their homes and was the result of a grease fire that started in a kitchen at about

The fire was brought under control at about 7:15 a.m., according to Cleveland fire officials.  

3:35 a.m., WOIO Channel 19 reports.  

COLUMBUS  

Woman killed during standoff with SWAT  

Columbus officers returned fire.  

Police in Ohio's capital city say an armed woman killed during a SWAT standoff was shot when two longtime

Columbus police say 25-year-old Kaitlin Marie Demeo was shot when she fired at officers from the window of a

home on Saturday morning, several hours after the standoff began. It is the city's fourth police-involved shooting

Police say a report of gunfire prompted the initial response to the home where Demeo barricaded herself, armed

Police say negotiators tried unsuccessfully to persuade her to surrender.  

On Monday, police identified the SWAT officers involved as a 29-year veteran of the department and a 22-year

An official from the local police union didn't immediately respond to a message seeking comment.  

Body of missing man found in Ohio River  

Police say the body of a West Virginia man who had been missing since Christmas has been found in the Ohio

Putnam County Sheriff Steve Deweese says in a statement on Facebook that a fisherman found the body of 44-

year-old Jason Kirkpatrick in the river last week near Gallipolis.  

Deweese says Tucker had lived in a campground in Winfield, West Virginia, and had been missing since Dec.  

The body has been sent to the state medical examiner in Charleston, West Virginia, for an autopsy.  

this year.  

with a rifle.  

veteran officer.  

GALLIPOLIS  

River.  

25.  

CANTON  

Man arrested after stabbing at eatery  

A felonious assault charge was filed against a 37-year-old man who reportedly stabbed an employee of the

EuroGyro restaurant at 3717 Cleveland Ave. NW early Saturday.  

William D. McIntyre of 2118 Washington Blvd. NW stabbed the victim in the back as restaurant employees were

trying to escort the suspect out of the business, according to police.  

McIntyre had been arguing with a woman in Euro-Gyro, according to the booking form at the Stark County Jail. The

incident occurred shortly after 2 a.m. Saturday.  

McIntyre fled, but police used a dog to track down him down near Chestnut Court and 34th Street Northwest. He

also is facing charges of resisting arrest and obstructing official business.  

JACKSON TOWNSHIP  

Police charge man with robbery  

a nearby motel.  

report at the Stark County Jail.  

records.  

A 52-year-old Perry Township man was arrested Saturday morning on a robbery charge after he allegedly took

money from the Marathon gasoline station and convenience store at 4516 Ever-hard Road NW.  

Police apprehended Joseph Lapidus of 139 Fair-lawn Ave. SW at 4:41 a.m. Saturday after discovering him outside

Lapidus entered the Marathon station and was denied permission to use a debit card, according to the arrest

He returned but was not successful in an attempt to use an automatic teller machine, also according to jail

Lapidus at that point told a woman employee to give him all the money in the cash register, which she complied

and he took $85, according to the jail booking form.  

He did not display a weapon during the robbery, the jail booking form states. Lapidus fled, but was apprehended by

police.  

From wire reports 
 
 
