DA urges reforms after suspect with homemade gun - Hunterdon
County Democrat (Flemington, NJ) - May 13, 2018 - page A19
May 13, 2018 | Hunterdon County Democrat (Flemington, NJ) | Kurt Bresswein | Page A19

REGION

Aaron Ibrahem
Aaron Ibrahem  was a felon prohibited by federal law from buying the handgun he leveled at
police at a Walmart Supercenter, drawing a barrage of bullets that left the 26-year-old dead.

Ibrahem exploited a “serious ‘loophole’” in federal firearms laws to legally purchase key
components of the gun — assembled by hand — that he carried during the incident March 28 in
Lower Macungie T ownship, Lehigh County District Attorney Jim Martin says in his report on the
shooting.

“I intend to forward this report to area federal and state legislators in the hope that corrective
legislation may be promulgated,” Martin says.

At issue is Ibrahem’s legal purchase over the internet of the serial-numbered slide/barrel, also
known as an upper, for a Glock .40-caliber handgun, according to Martin.

“Ironically, this integral part of the pistol may be purchased legally on the internet (eBay) without
scrutiny — no AT F form required,” Martin wrote. “It is not considered to be a firearm.” It must be
mated to a frame/receiver, or lower, to function.

Ibrahem “could not have legally purchased the frame/receiver,” according to the DA. “But he could
(and did) legally purchase the slide/barrel on the internet.

“It is believed that he then ‘manufactured’ a firearm by obtaining the lower portion (frame/receiver)
of the weapon by purchasing a so-called ‘Polymer 80’ on the internet.”

A Polymer 80 refers to a polymer-of-plastic frame that is 80 percent of a complete handgun,
Martin said. According to polymer80.com, this 80 percent lower receiver may be transferred
without a U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, T obacco, Firearms and Explosives federal firearms license.

T he Polymer 80 is a do-it-yourself project without the holes needed to complete a firearm. A
frame/receiver that has the necessary holes pre-drilled requires an AT F firearms transaction
record designed to prevent purchase by a convict like Ibrahem.

“T he manufacturing process can be easily completed by drilling or machining out the holes to
attach the slide/barrel, trigger parts and other necessary parts,” Martin wrote. “All of those can be
acquired on the internet.”

Likewise the instructions are available on YouTube or the how-to section of polymer80.com, which

does note “a strict policy against selling 80 percent receivers to convisted (sic) felons.”

Somehow, Ibrahem got one, despite crimes in his past “punishable by imprisonment exceeding one
year,” according to Martin; that made Ibrahem a person not to possess firearms under federal law.

“T he point I am making ... is that you can legally purchase everything but a frame without
submitting an AT F form, but in place of a frame that you would have to submit an AT F form for
you can buy one of these Polymer 80s on the internet,” Martin told lehighvalleylive.com.

It’s a common practice, Martin said, citing firearms experts.

“And in my opinion it represents a serious ‘loophole’ that should be closed by legislation at both the
federal and state levels,” he wrote in his report. “Why permit the purchase of firearm parts without
any scrutiny whatsoever by Persons Not to Possess, which they may then easily assemble into a
functional firearm?”"

Copyrig ht 2018 Hunterdon County Democrat. All Rights Reserved.

 