
 
While fairly certain he's their guy, state police are continuing to investigate whether Aaron Ibrahem, the man shot

dead after he fired at a state trooper last week at a Walmart in Lower Macungie, was behind a string of retail thefts

at Walmarts in Schuylkill County, including one where he pulled a gun on an employee. 

"We're still working on that for a positive confirmation," Lt. Joseph Sokolofksi, head of Troop M's criminal

investigations unit, said. "It would appear by the M.O. and the surveillance footage that it is one and the same." 

Sokolofski said investigators are looking into four shoplifting reports at Walmarts in Schuylkill County that could

be linked to Ibrahem, 26 of Longswamp Township, Berks County. 

He said they began in February and during the last of the four, on March 15, a masked shoplifter was fleeing the

Walmart in Saint Clair with a shopping cart full of electronics when a store employee stopped him. 

The shoplifter pulled a gun and the employee backed away and the shoplifter fled in a white minivan, police said. 

After that crime, store officials alerted employees at other Walmarts, which is what caught the attention of a loss

prevention officer at the Walmart on Millcreek Road in Lower Macungie. 

State police said Ibrahem was wearing a wig and a lifelike mask when he walked into the Lower Macungie Walmart

at 8:50 p.m. Wednesday. A loss prevention officer saw him filling a shopping cart, and grew suspicious because of

the Schuylkill County alert. 

side exit of the store, police said. 

The loss prevention officer phoned state police at 9:07 p.m., and a trooper arrived in two minutes.The trooper

encountered Ibrahem in the vestibule of the store. Ibrahem dumped the shopping cart and started walking out the

Once Ibrahem stepped out of the store, the trooper ordered him to stop, but Ibrahem took off running through the

parking lot, nearly getting hit by a passing car, police said. Ibrahem fired one shot at the trooper from 15 yards

away once he reached his minivan, police said. Ibrahem managed to get in the minivan and continued to point his

gun at the trooper, who fired through the van's window and door, police said. 

Police recovered a .40-caliber Glock on Ibrahem's lap. Besides investigating his connection to the string of

Schuylkill County thefts, police are also looking into how he got the gun, Sokolofski said. 

Ibrahem had an extensive criminal history, which included felonies, and pleaded guilty to leading police on a 2014

chase in Hanover Township, Northampton County, where he threatened to shoot police. During his sentencing for

the chase, Ibrahem told a judge he had bipolar disorder and she recommended he be sent to a state prison where

he could receive mental health treatment. 

Sokolofski said the trooper who fired on Ibrahem continues to be on administrative duties, as is protocol on all

police-involved shootings. The trooper is a four-year veteran who was working his first week at the Fogelsville

barracks. 

mgamiz@mcall.com 

Twitter @mannypantalones 

Credit: By Manuel Gamiz Jr. - Of The Morning Call - mgamiz@mcall.com;Twitter @mannypantalones;610-820-6595 

610-820-6595 

Caption: Ibrahem 
 
 
