
 
Nov. 15--Pennsylvania State Police presented awards to area law enforcement and EMTs on Wednesday to honor

those who performed "lifesaving actions," including several who helped save state police Cpl. Seth Kelly, who was

shot several times last year in an attack in Plainfield Township. 

The Troop Drill awards were held at the Troop M barracks in Bethlehem that serves Lehigh, Northampton and

Bucks counties. The awards are presented to area police departments and other first responders for "performing

their duties in an "extraordinary manner," according to a news release. 

The following were recognized at the ceremony, which is only open to the honorees and their families: 

* Bushkill Township police officer John Zwally: Following a Nov. 7, 2017, traffic stop along Route 33 in Plainfield

Township, Daniel Clary opened fire on Trooper Ryan Seiple and Cpl. Kelly after they tried to arrest him for driving

under the influence. A gun battle broke out and Kelly was shot several times and nearly bled to death on the side of

the road. Authorities say that when the call for help was broadcast over police scanners, Zwally was one of the

first officers at the scene and performed CPR on Kelly until emergency medical units arrived. 

* Plainfield Township volunteer fire company EMTs Derek Flavelle and James McCammon: Authorities say both

Flavelle and McCammon helped save Kelly's life after he was shot four times. Both were able to restore Kelly's

heart rhythm and maintained his airway before he was loaded onto a medical helicopter. 

* Suburban EMS EMTs Jason Steranko and Jeremy Slack and paramedics Howard Schwartz and David Berger:

Authorities say all four were able to provide crucial medical assistance to Kelly after the shooting. 

* Trooper Michael Patrone: On May 1, Patrone was called to Hugh Moore Park in Easton for a report that a 15-year-

old girl had recently left an inpatient facility and was experiencing suicidal thoughts. Patrone found the girl had

jumped from a bridge over the Lehigh River and jumped in after her. With the help of Palmer Township police

officer Peter Attieh and civilians Antwon Gray, Daquian Holloman and Patrick Barnes, the men were able to save

the girl and take her to a medical facility for help. 

* Trooper Brian Bird: On March 28, Bird was called to the Walmart in Lower Macungie to investigate a man wearing

a mask who was trying to steal items. As troopers confronted Aaron Ibrahem, 26, he pulled out a homemade gun

and fired shots at Bird during a chase. Bird returned fire and Ibrahem died at the scene. The shooting was ruled

justified. 

* Trooper Brennan Long and his partner, Trooper Kyle Yeager: On Aug. 3, the troopers were patrolling Unami Park in

Milford Township, Bucks County, when they found a woman parked in a secluded area. The woman was holding a

knife and made cuts to her wrists, telling the troopers she was trying to kill herself after losing her job and custody

of her children. The troopers provided first aid and helped the woman seek medical and mental health treatment. 

pamela.lehman@mcall.com 

610-820-6790 

CREDIT: By Pamela Lehman 
 
 

Company / organization:

Name: State Police-Pennsylvania; NAICS: 922120; Name: Walmart Inc; NAICS:

452112, 452910, 454111

