
 
An exchange of gunfire late Friday night at an apartment complex near Bordeaux left a gunman dead and a police

officer with a gunshot wound, authorities said. 

Police said officers were called to the Overlook Ridge apartments at about 10:30 p.m. Friday after receiving reports

of gunfire in the area. 

who died. 

A spokesman for the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, which is tasked with investigating the shooting, said "for

reasons still unclear, the situation escalated," resulting in the gunfire between two police officers and the subject

The TBI identified the deceased man as 31-year-old Sershawn Martez Dillon. 

The TBI said Dillon is believed to be the same individual responsible for a stranger sexual assault that occurred in

the same neighborhood just prior to his encounter with law enforcement. 

The Nashville police officer injured in the shooting was Samuel Galluzzi, 24, who has worked at the department for

two years. He's in stable condition after suffering gunshots to his thigh and ankle. 

Metro police say the two officers who "returned the gunman's fire" were Detective Zachary Ronan and Officer John

Petriello. 

The gunman died after being transported to Vanderbilt Medical Center. 

The officers who arrived at the complex, near Buena Vista and Clarksville Pikes, saw a person who matched the

description of the gunman in the initial report, said Josh Devine, a TBI spokesman. 

The person who police saw also matched the description of a suspect in a "pistol-whipping" incident earlier in the

evening, Devine said. 

have any reason to be in that unit, he said. 

The man went into a unit at the apartment complex, and police came to believe the man did not live or otherwise

He said police quickly regrouped and approached the apartment's door in an effort to make contact with the

subject and check the welfare of those inside the unit. 

"For reasons still very much under investigation at this time, the situation escalated and resulted in gunfire

between at least thee of the officers and the subject," Devine said. 

Two officers exchanged gunfire with the man in the apartment, Devine said. 

Dillon died at the scene. The injured officer was taken to a hospital with a gunshot wound to his leg and was

expected to survive. 

The shooting comes after police-involved shootings have gained more attention locally and nationally. 

Nashville police and TBI agents were investigating a shooting that injured a police officer on Friday at the Overlook

Ridge apartments. 

Mariah Timms/ The Tennessean 

CREDIT: Mariah Timms; Joey Garrison 
 
 

Publication title:

The Tennessean; Nashville, Tenn.

