Autopsy shows man killed by deputies had four - Herald-Times
(Bloomington, IN) - August 8, 2018
August 8, 2018 | Herald-Times (Bloomington, IN) | Abby Tonsing

Preliminary autopsy results for a Bloomington man killed Tuesday morning in a police-action
shooting revealed Monroe County deputies shot him four times.

Daniel Boyer pointed a loaded handgun at Deputies Don T eague and Deandre Moxley
Police say Daniel B oyer
as they served arrest warrants at a mobile home in southwestern Monroe County. Boyer, 24, died
from his injures at 10:01 a.m. Tuesday at IU Health Bloomington Hospital.

Boyer received two gunshot wounds to his left thigh, one to his right index finger and a superficial
wound to his lower right back, Monroe County Coroner Joani Shields said after Wednesday
morning's autopsy in T erre Haute.

T he coroner did not release a cause of death for Boyer and declined to answer questions, citing an
ongoing investigation. Results from toxicology tests are also pending.

Four deputies and two sergeants went to a mobile home at 5996 W. Tower Road, off Ison Road,
to serve an arrest warrant to 33-year-old Tiffany Nicole Flynn after a home detention violation in a
pending drug case.

Deputies also had information that Boyer, who was wanted on methamphetamine charges, might
also be there.

Deputies T eague and Moxley approached the back of the mobile home from the woods, as Boyer
had in the past fled out the back door of the Tower Road residence during deputies' previous
attempts to serve warrants.

Sheriff Brad Swain said Boyer, armed with a loaded semi-automatic handgun, cursed and pointed
the gun at the two deputies.

T eague and Moxley, who were both wearing body cameras, fired their 9 mm Glock 17 handguns,
striking Boyer four times and killing him.

T eague has been a deputy since Jan. 22, 2013. He is a certified instructor, specializing in physical
tactics, standardized sobriety testing and field training. He has also serves in the Marine Corps
Reserves and has been deployed to Iraq, according to Capt. Ryan Davis of the Monroe County
Sheriff's Office.

Moxley is a rookie deputy and started at the sheriff's office on Jan. 29. He graduated from the
Indiana Law Enforcement Academy in May, and was paired with T eague for field training on
T uesday.

Both deputies have been placed on paid administrative leave during an internal investigation into
Boyer's death.

Aside from Flynn, two women and a 16-year-old boy were inside the mobile home at the time of
the police-action shooting.

Heather N. Bright, 31, who lives at the Tower Road mobile home, has been charged with
possession of methamphetamine. She was booked into the Monroe County Jail Tuesday morning
and is being held on a $2,500 bond.

T he teen on Tuesday morning appeared to be under the influence of alcohol or drugs, so he was
transported to the hospital for an evaluation. He was then taken to a juvenile detention center on
charges of robbery and auto theft in an unrelated case, according to Bloomington police Sgt. Jason
Shaevitz.

Bloomington police had been looking for the teen in connection with an Aug. 2 theft of a black
2007 Dodge Caliber during a fight at an apartment complex pool. T he teen does not have legal
guardians and is a chronic runaway who recently left a facility in Indianapolis.

Court records indicate that about 8 o'clock the night of May 23, a Monroe County judge approved
a warrant to search Boyer's West County Club Drive house. Indiana State Police reported finding
meth and three loaded handguns.

A week later, police filed drug charges against Flynn: dealing meth, possession of meth, possession
of a controlled substance, possession of a legend drug, possession of paraphernalia and
maintaining a common nuisance.

Court records indicate she was arrested May 31 and spent a week in jail before posting bond and
getting released on home detention. A notice of noncompliance and warrant were issued by the
court, and police were at the mobile home Tuesday to serve that as well as the warrants for
Boyer's arrest if he was there.

-- HT  reporter Laura Lane contributed to this report.

© Copyrig ht 2018 Herald-Times. All rights reserved.

 