
 
Aug. 08--Police say a 24-year-old Bloomington man pointed a handgun at two deputies approaching to serve arrest

warrants Tuesday morning, and died from injuries received when the officers shot him. 

Daniel Boyer was pronounced dead at 10:01 a.m. Tuesday at IU Health Bloomington Hospital. 

Three women and a 16-year-old boy were inside the mobile home at 5966 W. Tower Road at the time of the police-

action shooting. The teenager was also transported to the hospital with medical issues Monroe County Sheriff

Brad Swain described as a possible drug reaction. 

Monroe County Coroner Joanie Shields released preliminary autopsy results for Boyer, which determined he

sustained a total of four gunshot wounds: one to his right index finger, two to his left thigh and a superficial wound

to his lower right back. Toxicology results are still pending and no further information is available at this time, as

this is an ongoing investigation. 

drug charges, might also be inside. 

Deputies arrived at the Tower Road residence Tuesday morning to serve a warrant for a home detention violation

to a 33-year-old woman who lives at the mobile home. They also had information that Boyer, who was wanted on

Swain said two deputies approached the back of the mobile home from a wooded area because Boyer had in the

past fled from police from out the back door there during previous attempts to serve warrants. 

Additional deputies were parked in the driveway of the property, which is nestled in a wooded area alongside a

gravel road that runs north of Tower Road, off Ison Road, at its dead end. 

"The male subject who they had been looking for came out the back door with a handgun, pointed it at the deputies

and said a comment to the effect of 'f--- this,'" Swain said. 

The sheriff said Boyer held a loaded semi-automatic handgun. 

Both deputies fired their service weapons at Boyer, striking him. Then they rendered first aid and CPR until medics

The sheriff did not name the two deputies involved in the police-action shooting. 

"We won't release their names for now, give them some time to decompress," Swain said during a press conference

arrived. 

Tuesday afternoon. 

One is an experienced deputy and training officer who served in Afghanistan and is in the Marine Corps Reserves.

The other deputy is a rookie, just out of the police academy and completing his field training. 

They have been placed on paid administrative leave while the sheriff's department conducts an internal

investigation into Boyer's death. 

"Should I have a need for an external investigation or another agency to assist, that's just a matter of me making a

phone call and requesting the assistance," Swain said. 

Both deputies were wearing body cameras at the time of the shooting. Swain did not know how many shots were

fired, and said his understanding is that Boyer did not fire his weapon. 

Bloomington police officers, Indiana State Police troopers and Van Buren Township firefighters also responded to

the scene in southwestern Monroe County. 

The sheriff's department requested assistance from Bloomington's Critical Incident Response Team, which used

flash grenades to clear the mobile home, making sure no one was still inside after the shooting. 

Police had already transported the women and teen to the sheriff's station for questioning when the CIRT

members arrived in their armored BearCat. Animal control officers seized a pitbull dog from the mobile home. 

Swain said the teen recently had left an Indianapolis juvenile facility and is related to one of the women. Swain

said the two had arrived at the mobile home minutes before deputies came with the arrest warrants. 

According to Monroe County court records, Boyer, of 712 W. Country Club Drive, had been charged with multiple

offenses over the past year involving methamphetamine and one charging illegal gun possession. 

Last November, police charged him with dealing and possessing meth, and he spent Thanksgiving and Christmas

in the Monroe County Jail under a $15,500 bond. 

In March, a judge released Boyer from jail on his own recognizance and put him on house arrest. 

But when he failed to appear for a June court hearing, a warrant was issued for his arrest and return to jail. 

Then last Friday, Monroe Circuit Judge Mary Ellen Diekhoff found probable cause for four new charges and issued

a second warrant for dealing more than 10 grams of meth, possession of more than 28 grams of meth, possession

of an altered handgun and possession of paraphernalia. 

Deputies who went to arrest him Tuesday morning at the Tower Road mobile home arrived with two warrants for

his arrest. 

warrant for not showing up in court. 

Those charges carried a $30,500 bond, but Boyer would have been held without bond because of the previous

Court records indicate that when eight Indiana State Police troopers and detectives searched Boyer's County Club

Drive house on May 23, they found meth and smoking devices in his bedroom. 

They also found three handguns: a Taurus 9mm loaded with nine bullets; a .45-caliber with the serial number

scratched off that was loaded with 10 bullets; and a .380-caliber handgun with 11 rounds of ammunition. 

CREDIT: By Ab Tonsing and Laura Lane 
 
 
