
 
Publication: Indiana Daily Student, Indiana University, Bloomington IN. 

A 24-year-old Bloomington man died after being shot by two Monroe County Sheriff’s Deputies on Tuesday

morning, according to Monroe County Sheriff Brad Swain.  

Daniel Boyer was identified by Monroe County Coroner Joani Shields as the victim of the shooting.  

The deputies were serving arrest warrants in the 5900 block of Tower Road, about four miles outside Bloomington,

when the shooting occurred.  

According to an email from Swain, Boyer exited the rear of a mobile home with a handgun and pointed it at two

deputies, who shot him. At a news conference Tuesday afternoon, Swain said Boyer's gun was a loaded, semi-

automatic handgun, but it was his understanding that Boyer had not fired any shots.  

Deputies administered first aid and CPR on Boyer and he was transported to IU Health Bloomington Hospital.

Swain said it was reported to him by a deputy at the hospital that Boyer died.  

The scene of this morning's officer-involved shooting that left one man dead in the 5900 block of West Tower

Road. Police preparing to collect evidence. pic.twitter.com/zNM9miBYW1 —Abby Tonsing (@abbytonsing) August

Swain said both the Bloomington Police Department and Indiana State Police responded and are assisting the

According to an Indiana Public Media article, it remains unclear how many shots were fired and how many times

7, 2018  

Boyer was hit.  

Monroe County Sheriff's Department.  

Police are not releasing the identities of the two deputies who shot Boyer, although Swain said they were not

injured and were both wearing body cameras. Swain said the deputies will be on paid, administrative leave during

the investigation into the shooting.  

During his news conference, Swain said besides Boyer, there were also three adult women and a 16-year-old boy at

the mobile home at the time of the shooting. According to the Herald-Times, the 33-year-old woman who lives at

the mobile home was wanted on a home detention violation warrant, while Boyer was wanted on a warrant

charging dealing in methamphetamine and possession of methamphetamine.  

According to the Herald-Times, the teenage boy was transported to the hospital with medical issues, which may

BPD's Critical Incident Response Team and the Lenco BearCat armored truck were deployed to the scene following

CIRT leaving the scene. pic.twitter.com/uwmugixSc3 —Abby Tonsing (@abbytonsing) August 7, 2018  

Bloomington Police Chief Mike Diekhoff told the Herald-Times the CIRT and armored truck were requested to help

clear the mobile home to make sure no one was still inside it.  

Like what you're reading? Support independent, award-winning college journalism on this site. Donate here.  

have been drug-induced.  

the shooting.  

Credit: Cameron Drummond 
 

