
 
It was a bittersweet day of welcoming a new life while grieving one taken too soon. Four days after Chase Maddox

was gunned down as he helped serve a warrant, the Locust Grove police officer's wife delivered a baby boy on

Tuesday. 

The newborn, named Bodie, is the couple's second child, and the grieving Henry County community did its part to

show a widow and her two boys how much they are loved. Contributions for the Maddox family topped $100,000

and continued to flow in, according to police. 

"What happened can't be reversed, but out of this senseless tragedy, it is encouraging to see the love from the

entire community," Henry SheriffKeith McBrayer said in a letter posted on his department's Facebook page. 

Meanwhile, new details are emerging about what may have driven 39-year-old Tierre Guthrie to violence, including

his belief that he did not have to abide by laws. 

"They were attacked on Friday from an individual that did not respect our laws. A man that did not believe in the

law," McBrayer said. "He opposed our form of government and had no value for human life. For someone to open

fire in a house at officers when he had his own family in that same house is hard to imagine." 

Guthrie had been served eviction papers nine days earlier, McBrayer told Channel 2 Action News. But when Guthrie

failed to appear in court last week after being cited for illegally parking a commercial vehicle, deputies returned to

his St. Francis Court rental home with an arrest warrant. Deputies spoke with Guthrie for roughly 10 minutes before

calling for backup assistance, McBrayer said. 

"It was made clear he had no intention of going anywhere with anybody," McBrayer said. 

Guthrie used language that implied he was a sovereign citizen, a group that believes they are exempt from

government regulations. It was Maddox who responded to the deputies'request for help. 

As deputies attempted to arrestGuthrie, hewentupthe stairs just inside the home's front door and grabbed a gun,

McBrayer said. Deputy Michael Corley was shot first, but the bullet hit his vest. 

"The witnesses that we know of said they saw him comeoutthedoorandhewas hollering and in pain and realized

that he was okay enough to go back," McBrayer said. "So he turned around and went back inside, but by the time

he had got back inside the entire incident was over. 

Guthrie also shot Deputy Sid Callaway and Maddox, who was struck three times, according to the GBI. The

Tuesday. 

(Box) 

7055. 

deputies returned fire, hitting Guthrie several times. Callaway, a law enforcement veteran serving as a reserve

deputy, was shot in the abdomen. Corley was treated and released from the hospital on Friday, while Callaway's

condition improved and he was able to move from intensive care to a regular hospital room, McBrayer said

Since Maddox's death, the communityhasrallied tohelp his family through various fundraising efforts. Donations

were being accepted at United Community banks andattheLocustGrovepolice department.A fund had also been set

up to assist Callaway with his recovery. 

Maddox's funeral will be held 11 a.m. Saturday at the Glen Haven Baptist Church in McDonough, Ga. 

HOW YOU CAN HELP THE MADDOX FAMILY: 

|Bank donations: You can drop off donations at any United Community Bank location and ask that it be deposited

into "THE MADDOX FAMILY FUND."Donations may be mailed to the local branch at 4970 Bill Gardner Parkway,

Locust Grove, GA 30248 

|Item donations: You can donate newborn and infant items at the Locust Grove Public Safety Building, 3640

Highway 42, Locust Grove, GA 30248. Food donations must be coordinated through police by contacting 770-957-

|Transportation: The family is in need of a custom van for their son with special needs. Donations can be made at

the Toyota of McDonough dealership at 144 Highway 81 West, McDonough, GA 30253 or by calling 770-651-0802.

HOW YOU CAN HELP WOUNDED HENRY COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPUTY RALPH "SID"CALLAWAY: 

|A YouCaring fundraiser has been set up to help the family with expenses:

https://www.youcaring.com/ralphsidcallaway-1095319 

Company / organization:

Name: Locust Grove; NAICS: 712110, 712120; Name: Facebook Inc; NAICS: 518210,

Publication title:

The Atlanta Journal - Constitution; Atlanta, Ga.

CREDIT: Staff 
 
 
