Family of fallen Locust Grove police officer to - Cherokee Tribune
(Canton, GA) - March 7, 2019
March 7, 2019 | Cherokee Tribune (Canton, GA) | Christine Fonville @NeighborXine

Southern Crescent Habitat for Humanity, a Habitat for Humanity affiliate, has rallied community
partners in an effort to make the home of fallen Locust Grove Police Officer, Chase Maddox, more
accessible for his son.

Southern Crescent Habitat for Humanity will partner with Team Depot on March 15th to construct
an accessibility ramp for Bradin Maddox, who has cerebral palsy which limits his mobility. Building
the ramp is the first step in Southern Crescent's extensive plan to make the Maddox home
accessible for Bradin and those who care for him.

Officer Maddox died in February of 2018. T he incident happened on St. Frances Court at about 11
a.m. when Henry County Sheriff's deputies Michael D. Corley and Ralph Sidwell "Sid" Callaway and
Locust Grove police officer Chase Maddox attempted to serve an arrest warrant on suspect
T ierre Guthrie who was also shot and killed. Maddox, 26, died after a fight ensued and shots
T ierre Guthrie
were fired at the scene.

Officer Maddox, a McDonough native, was a veteran of the National Guard. Just four days after
the fatal incident, his widow, Alex Maddox, gave birth to the couple's second son, Bodie.

"In the midst of this tragedy, we hoped that in some meaningful way we could help the family.
Gratefully, Team Depot has stepped in to fund a portion of the project to make this home barrier-
free for Bradin. We hope to receive additional funds to complete the needed accessible ramps,
bathroom modifications, and chairlift. We serve veteran-families and seniors who need these kinds
of home repair every day. We know that the community will help us meet this needs of this family
and others in South Metro Atlanta," said Southern Crescent CEO Cynthia Jenkins.

T eam Depot, T he Home Depot's associate-led volunteer program, contributed $10k in gift cards
to jumpstart the project followed by another $10k from the Home Depot Foundation. Employees
from various Home Depot stores will join Southern Crescent staff and other volunteers on the
morning of Friday, March 15th at the Maddox residence in Griffin, GA. Southern Crescent Habitat
for Humanity hopes to rally additional community partners to complete other renovations in the
home.

For more information on how to help Southern Crescent Habitat for Humanity with the Chase
Maddox project or other families, please e-mail development@schabitat.org or donate to the
GoFundMe at www.gofundme.com/thechasemaddoxproject.

Copyrig ht 2019, Cherokee Tribune. All Rights Reserved.

 