
 
Vt. Official: Officers Were Justified in Fatal Shooting 

Montpelier —Two police officers were justified in fatally shooting a distraught man who was holding a pistol to his

head by the side of a busy interstate with cars going by, Vermont’s top law enforcement officer said Friday. 

Attorney General T.J. Donovan released the results of his office’s investigation into the Feb. 11 death of 42-year-

old Benjamin Gregware, of Sheldon. He was shot multiple times by a state police trooper and a Richmond officer

after he refused orders to drop his weapon, a high-powered machine pistol that was later found to be loaded with

“It was a dynamic situation,” Donovan said during a Friday news conference in Burlington. “This was done on

Interstate 89 in Richmond with people coming home from skiing. And we are lucky there was not more of a tragedy

the safety off.  

that day.” 

Post-Prohibition Era Law Closes N.H. Brewery 

Hampton, n.h. —A New Hampshire restaurateur says he was forced to close his brewery because of a post-

Prohibition era federal law.  

Community Oven Owner Shane Pine closed Four Pines Brewing Company Monday. The law prevents him from

operating both except under certain exemptions. 

Pine said he was allowed to open Four Pines in July 2016 as part of the Community Oven by acquiring a brewpub

license for both the restaurant and brewery. After attempting to open another restaurant, the state told Pine it

would violate federal law to open another restaurant and keep the brewery. He kept the restaurant and closed the

brewery.  

A Liquor Commission spokesman says the law was created to prevent distributors from being pushed out of the

market by beer manufacturers selling their own beer directly. 

Vermont House Again Approves State Budget 

Montpelier —Lawmakers in the Vermont House have once again approved a state budget, but it doesn’t appear the

logjam with Republican Gov. Phil Scott has been cleared.  

The House Friday gave preliminary approval to the budget by a vote of 86-44. 

In a statement, Democratic House Speaker Mitzi Johnson says the bill raises no property taxes and reduces

income taxes by $30 million.  

But Scott spokeswoman Rebecca Kelley says House Democrats rejected amendments, including one that appears

to remove the one remaining point of dispute. She says the Democratic-led House is poised to submit yet another

budget that increases non-residential property tax rates by $23 million. 

Scott vetoed the original budget. 

Lawmakers have proposed several compromises, but Scott has refused to consider them, saying they would raise

property taxes. 

— Wire reports 

 
 
