
 
MANTOLOKING - A 39-year-old Stafford man hiding out in a borough home was killed following a standoff with

police that ended when he slit his neck and officers opened fire after he stabbed a police dog, authorities said 

Edward Walsh had fled to Mantoloking after he allegedly kidnapped and assaulted his girlfriend in Middlesex

County on Sunday, authorities said. After a 45-minute standoff with police, Walsh was killed after he allegedly

stabbed a police K-9 with a knife, prompting police to fire their service weapons, Ocean County Prosecutor Bradley

Billhimer said in a statement. Walsh also had a self-inflicted knife wound across his neck, Billhimer said. 

His cause of death has not yet been determined and it's unclear whether officers' bullets or the self-inflicted wound

killed him. An autopsy is pending to determine the cause of death. 

The chain of events that led to Walsh's death began in Sayreville Sunday when Walsh kidnapped and assaulted his

girlfriend, according to the statement. Walsh then stole his girlfriend's car and fled to Lacey, Billhimer said. 

He was wanted on charges of first-degree kidnapping, second- and third-degree aggravated assault, unlawful

possession of a weapon, possession of a weapon for an unlawful purpose and vehicle theft, authorities said. 

Lacey police then received "reliable information" that Walsh was hiding out at a home on Barnegat Lane in

Mantoloking. Detectives surmised that Walsh had sought refuge there because he used to be married to a family

member of the prior owner. 

house on Barnegat Lane. 

The two-story home was sold in February 2017 for $1,550,000, according to public records. 

Shortly before noon Monday, Lacey police alerted their counterparts in Mantoloking that Walsh was likely at the

Three Mantoloking police officers, one Ocean County Sheriff's officer with a K-9 officer named Kane and one Bay

Head police officer arrived at the home, where Walsh was hiding out armed with a knife, to serve an arrest warrant. 

After about 45 minutes and with permission from the current homeowner, police burst into the home and ordered

Walsh to drop the knife, Billhimer said. 

When Walsh refused, the K-9 was released to help subdue him, he said. 

"Walsh, who was within approximately 20 feet of the officers, stabbed K-9 Officer Kane with a knife and then the

officers fired," according to the statement. 

Billhimer did not say to which department the officers who opened fire belonged. 

The Ocean County Medical Examiner pronounced Walsh dead at the scene. 

K-9 Officer Kane was taken to Red Bank Veterinary Hospital in Tinton Falls. He is expected to make a full recovery

and will be released from the hospital tomorrow, Billhimer said. 

The Ocean County Prosecutor's Office contacted the State Police to process the scene because Walsh's death

occurred while police were using force. The state Attorney General's Office reviews —and sometimes take charge

of —investigations in which police deadly force is deployed. 

State Police investigators were on scene during the investigation Monday afternoon. 

Anyone with information relevant to the investigation is asked to contact Detective Brant Uricks or Detective

Lindsay Woodfield of the Ocean County Prosecutor's Office at 732-929-2027. 

The shooting stunned the normally quiet beachfront community of Mantoloking. Detectives from the prosecutor's

office, State Police and Ocean County Sheriff's Department gathered in front of the home, which was roped off with

crime scene tape following the shooting. 

The home is located in an upscale area with many seasonal homes. The borough was severely damaged when

superstorm Sandy struck the Jersey Shore in October 2012, damaging 90 percent of Mantoloking's 528 properties. 

Andrew Goudsward: @AGoudsward; 732-897-4555; agoudsward@gannettnj.com 

More online 

Search "Mantoloking" at APP.com to see more video and photos from the scene. 

CREDIT: Andrew J. Goudsward; Kathleen Hopkins; Alex N. Gecan; Jean Mikle 
 
 
