
 
MANTOLOKING –Edward M. Walsh, who met a violent end Monday, was facing new allegations of violent crime

after serving probation for another one. 

The 39-year-old Stafford man died after an armed confrontation with police in a home here, according to the Ocean

County Prosecutor's Office. Before dying, police say he stabbed a police dog, which was released from an animal

hospital Wednesday. 

Walsh's court history dates back to 1998, but the most serious allegations are more recent. 

On April 22, 2017, Stafford police charged Walsh with aggravated assault on a domestic violence victim, criminal

mischief and making terroristic threats, court records show. 

Walsh pleaded guilty to simple assault in July of that year, served a year of probation and paid a $100 penalty,

according to court records. 

Most of the charges Walsh faced over his lifetime were traffic-related, including driving after losing his license,

according to court records. He was busted in 1998 for possession of a small amount of marijuana but that charge

was conditionally dismissed in 2000 after he paid $780 in various fees and fines. 

Most recently, though, police in Sayreville charged Walsh with kidnapping, two counts of aggravated assault

including strangling a domestic violence victim, unlawful possession of weapon, possession of a weapon for an

unlawful purpose, making terroristic threats and theft, court records show. 

In a prepared statement, Ocean County Prosecutor Bradley Billhimer said Walsh had attempted to strangle his

girlfriend and stolen her car on Sunday. 

he died, according to the prosecutor's office. 

Police from several towns and sheriff's officers were trying to arrest Walsh on those charges in Mantoloking when

Walsh, holed up in a home and holding a knife, stabbed a sheriff's police dog the officers sent after him, according

to the prosecutor's statement. The officers shot when Walsh attacked. 

A medical examiner pronounced Walsh dead at the scene, but it is still unclear whether the gunfire, a self-inflicted

knife wound on Walsh's neck or something else was the cause of death. 

Police believe Walsh may have gone to the Mantoloking home "because he was previously married to a family

member of the prior owner," according to the prosecutor's statement. 

The dog, Kane, was treated at the Red Bank Veterinary Hospital in Tinton Falls and released Wednesday. A police

officer was treated at a hospital and released. Authorities have not identified the officers involved. 

The shooting is under review per guidelines from the Office of the Attorney General, according to the prosecutor's

Alex N. Gecan: @GeeksterTweets; 732-643-4043; agecan@gannettnj.com 

office. 

CREDIT: Alex N. Gecan 
 
 
