Man killed in shootout had warrants - Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) -
May 14, 2018 - page 1B
May 14, 2018 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Sheridan Hendrix | Page 1B

T he man who died in a shootout with law enforcement Saturday evening had active warrants for
violating protection orders.

T he Franklin County sheriff's office said in a statement Sunday afternoon that the deceased
suspect, who shot and wounded a sheriff's deputy, was identified as Darrell J. B ruf f y
Darrell J. B ruf f y, 55, of
Orient.

T he release did not identify the injured sheriff's deputy, who was taken to OhioHealth Grant
Medical Center on Saturday night in critical condition. After a surgery, the deputy was upgraded to
stable condition.

Saturday's South Side shootout took place just after 6:30 p.m., when the deputy attempted to stop
a man in a black pickup truck near Clime Road and Harrisburg Pike, said Marc Gofstein, sheriff's
office spokesman.

It is unclear whether Bruffy's outstanding warrants factored into the initial pursuit.

T he driver didn't stop, and a pursuit went on for five or six minutes, ending with the truck crashed
into a pole in front of the Shell gas station at Harrisburg Pike and Hopkins Avenue.

It was at that corner where law enforcement officers and Bruffy started shooting.

Gofstein wouldn't say who fired first or how many shots were fired. It all remains under
investigation, he said.

In eyewitness videos released by local T V stations, three seperate sets of gunfire, each with about
10-second lulls in between, are heard exchanged between officers and Bruffy. More than 20 shots
were exchanged altogether. In one video, a woman said, "Oh my God, he's shooting at the cop."

During the past two months, Bruffy had outstanding warrants for his arrest spanning for domestic
violence, assault and criminal trespassing, along with two violations of protection orders.

On March 24, police were called to the home of Bruffy's estranged wife, Michelle, on a report that
he had broken in and was assaulting her. When police arrived, officers heard a woman from inside
repeatedly screaming for help from an open window, according to police reports.

Ms. Bruffy told officers that she had separated from her husband two weeks earlier. With blood on
her shirt, she told police that Mr. Bruffy forced his way into her home and proceeded to strangle
and strike her, according to police reports.

A temporary protection order was issued against Mr. Bruffy on March 26. But police were called
again to Ms. Bruffy's home about a week later, on April 6. She told police that Mr. Bruffy came into
her home while she was gone and took a .40-caliber silver Ruger handgun.

Ms. Bruffy told officers she kept the firearm because she "lives in fear" of her ex-husband and that
"she doesn't feel safe anywhere now that he has a handgun," according to police reports.

Police were called to Ms. Bruffy's home on May 6 after she walked outside to close the shed and
said she saw Mr. Bruffy standing in the shed watching her.

More information regarding the investigation will be released Monday, according to the sheriff's
office.

shendrix@dispatch.com

@sheridan120

Copyrig ht 2018 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 