Man shot, killed by Salt Lake police - Deseret News, The (Salt Lake City,
UT) - April 19, 2018
April 19, 2018 | Deseret News, The (Salt Lake City, UT) | Pat Reavy Deseret News

By Pat Reavy

Deseret News

SALT  LAKE CIT Y - A man died Wednesday after being shot by Salt Lake City police who were
originally responding to a report of domestic violence and a possible hostage situation.

Delorean Pikyavit
Delorean Pikyavit , 32, died from his injuries, police confirmed Wednesday evening. It is the fourth
officer-involved shooting in Utah this month.

About 12:15 p.m. police were called to 1132 E. Princeton Ave. (1155 South). T he original call was for
a domestic violence incident, said Salt Lake Police Sgt. Brandon Shearer. He did not know who
made the call.

When police arrived they approached the suspect in the domestic violence call, later identified as
Pikyavit, prompting him to run back into the house, Shearer said. Not knowing whether there was a
hostage inside, a SWAT  team and hostage negotiators were called to the scene, Shearer said.

"After over an hour of trying to talk to the man, he came out of the home and approached the
officers. His actions caused the officers to respond, at which time the suspect was shot," he said.

Police did not release information Wednesday about what Pikyavit did to prompt police to shoot or
whether he was armed.

Shearer said less lethal force was also attempted, but he did not have further details. He did not
know how many officers fired their weapons or how many shots were fired. All of that information,
Shearer said, will be part of the officer-involved critical incident investigation, which is being headed
up by West Valley police.

Police originally described Pikyavit as "suicidal," saying he was barricaded inside the home.

A woman was also found injured at the house. Police later confirmed she was not inside the home
when Pikyavit re-entered. No details about how she was injured or the extent of her injuries were
released Wednesday.

It was unclear Wednesday whether Pikyavit lived at that house.

During the standoff, police ordered other residents in the neighborhood to shelter in place,
meaning they were to lock their doors and not go outside.

Kaytee Lucherini, who lives nearby, said she saw seven men with guns enter the home and was
trying to wrap her head around what had happened in her neighborhood.

"It's sad that it escalated to that," she said.

A search of state court records shows Pikyavit has three prior DUI convictions, one in Iron County
in 2009 and two in Washington County in 2012 and in 2011. He also pleaded guilty to driving on a
denied license in the 2011 case. He had also been convicted of misdemeanors for interference with
an arresting officer, drug possession and underage drinking.

Pikyavit's death marks the fourth officer-involved shooting in Utah in April.

* Lonnie Marcel Bowen, 41, was shot and killed Tuesday by a Unified police officer following a car
chase and a possible hostage incident inside his truck.

* Wade Leon Willis, 38, of Springville, was in critical condition from being shot on April 9 after
allegedly hitting a Utah County Sheriff's deputy with his car.

* Elijah James Smith, 20, was shot and killed April 8 by West Valley police after barging into a house
with three children inside, and then failing to obey officers' command to take his hands of his
pocket. When he eventually did, he took out his hand in a "rapid draw-stroke motion," police said.

Contributing: Annie Knox, Andrew Adams

Email: preavy@deseretnews.com

T witter: DNewsCrimeT eam

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Deseret News Publishing  Company

 