Salt Lake City police fatally shoot man in Sugar - Salt Lake Tribune, The
(UT) - April 18, 2018
April 18, 2018 | Salt Lake Tribune, The (UT)

A man was shot and killed by police outside a home in Sugar House after officers responded to a
reported domestic violence situation there Wednesday afternoon.

Police were called to the home — near 1100 East and Princeton Avenue (about 1200 South) —
about 12:20 p.m., Salt Lake City Sgt. Brandon Shearer said.

When officers arrived at the home, they tried to talk to the man, later identified as 32-year-old
Delorean Pikyavit
Delorean Pikyavit , who then went inside the house. T hat prompted police to switch tactics and
treat the situation as if they were dealing with a barricaded person and a hostage.

For the next hour, police attempted to talk to Pikyavit, and he came outside eventually, Shearer
said.

It's unclear what happened next, but officers shot Pikyavit about 2 p.m.

"He came out of the home and approached officers. His actions caused the officers to respond, at
which time the suspect was shot," Shearer said.

When asked about the man's "actions," Shearer said Salt Lake City police hadn't spoken to the
officers involved, as per the protocol requiring that a separate agency investigate police shootings.

Officers also used "less lethal tools" on Pikyavit, Shearer said, not elaborating on the weapons
used.

Pikyavit, in "extremely critical condition," was taken to a hospital, where he died later, Shearer said.

T he sergeant said he didn't know whether Pikyavit had a weapon when he was shot. Shearer also
said he did not know the relationship between the alleged domestic violence victim and the man.
He said that the woman involved in the report was never taken into the home, and that there
wasn't a hostage situation.

T he woman has since spoken to detectives, but Shearer didn't know what she said.

As police cordoned off the area and a tactical crew went to the scene with the man reportedly
barricaded in the house, officials told nearby residents to stay in their homes. Police also
announced via T witter that the man was suicidal.

T he order for residents was lifted about 2:15 p.m.

When asked later whether police still believed Pikyavit was suicidal, Shearer said he knew officers
had spoken with the man, but he didn't know what the man said to them.

West Valley City — whose officers fatally shot a man April 8 after he allegedly ran from police and
into a family's home — will investigate the shooting. Salt Lake City police were wearing body
cameras, and any footage gathered will be turned over to West Valley City authorities.

Pikyavit is at least the fourth person killed in a police shooting in Salt Lake County this year,
following deaths in Magna, West Valley City and Sandy. A teenager was shot by a Granite School
District police officer on March 20, but that boy is alive.

Using lethal force is sometimes necessary, Shearer said, to protect citizens and officers.

"Our job is to keep the citizens of Salt Lake City safe," he said. "We're going to do everything we
can to do that. Sometimes that puts our officers in dangerous situations, but we need to respond
appropriately to keep ourself and the community safe."

Pikyavit was convicted of multiple drug offenses, including exposing children to drugs, in 2014,
according to Utah court records.

T ribune reporter Tiffany Caldwell contributed to this story.

Copyrig ht Huntsman Family Investments, Salt Lake Tribune 2018. All Rights Reserved.

 