Man killed by sheriff's sergeant identified - Appeal-Democrat
(Marysville - Yuba City, CA) - June 7, 2018
June 7, 2018 | Appeal-Democrat (Marysville - Yuba City, CA) | Julie R. Johnson/ jjohnson@tcnpress.com

T he 34-year-old Los Molinos man shot and killed by a T ehama County sheriff's sergeant on
Abraham Noe Flores .
Wednesday in Red Bluff has been identified as Abraham Noe Flores

According to the sheriff's office, Flores had prior contacts with law enforcement and a history of
mental illness.

Flores was reportedly armed and suicidal when he was shot and killed not too far from Shasta
College T ehama Campus on Diamond Avenue in Red Bluff.

T he sheriff's office has not disclosed the name of the sergeant who shot Flores, but T ehama
County Asst. Sheriff Phil Johnston said he is a "veteran officer."

"Sheriff's dispatch received a 911 call around 11:28 today (Wednesday) from a female reporting
her boyfriend was armed with a rifle and a pistol and was suicidal in the area of 770 Diamond
Avenue, the old Diamond Mill platform," Johnston said.

He reported officers arrived shortly after and encountered a man armed with a rifle and pistol who
was saying he was going to shoot himself and was demanding officers shoot him.

It appears the woman who made the 911 call was nearby in a vehicle during this exchange.

As this area is just south of the college campus, the college was placed on lockdown.

At 11:55 a.m., the sheriff's department Crisis Negotiation Team arrived on scene and began
negotiating with the armed Los Molinos man.

"We negotiated with him for about 44 minutes," Johnston said. "During this time the subject
continuously tried to get officers to shoot him."

During this time, it appears the woman inside the vehicle at the scene was able leave the area of
danger and make it to a safe location.

"At 12:39 p.m. the male subject leveled a rifle, best described as a hunting rifle equipped with a
scope, at officers and took aim. A sheriff's sergeant fired two rounds at the subject. T he subject
immediately went down," Johnston said.

A medical team on standby during negotiations was dispatched to the downed man and declared
him dead at the scene, Johnston said.

T ehama County Sheriff Dave Hencratt, who was on scene, initiated the officer involved shooting
protocol to investigate the incident. T he investigation team has been headed up by Red Bluff Police
Lt. Matt Hansen.

Johnston said the Department of Justice has been contacted to assist with the investigation, as well
as a California Highway Patrol Multidisciplinary Accident Investigation T eam.

T he woman who made the 911 call about her boyfriend was transported the T ehama County
Sheriff's Office where she is being interviewed, Johnston added.

"I can say that she was not a hostage in this situation, but beyond that I cannot say what her role
was in this incident except to have been the one to make the 911 call," he said.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018, Appeal-Democrat, All Rights Reserved.

 