Law enforcement - Shooting victim’s name - Red Bluff Daily News (CA) -
June 8, 2018 - page 1
June 8, 2018 | Red Bluff Daily News (CA) | By Jake Hutchison jhutchison@redbluffdailynews.com | Article |
Page 1

RED BLUFF >> T he name of the man killed in an officer-involved shooting Wednesday off Diamond
Avenue was released as Abraham Noe Flores
issued Thursday by the T ehama County Sheriff’s Department.

Abraham Noe Flores , 34 of Los Molinos, according to a press release

Flores was shot and killed between Shasta College’s T ehama Campus and the former Diamond
Lumber Mill property after aiming a rifle at deputies.

A 911 call came into the dispatch center around 11:30 a.m. Wednesday from a woman saying her
boyfriend had a rifle and a handgun and was threatening to commit suicide.

Deputies responded to the incident near the campus and Flores asked them to shoot him. Flores
lifted his rifle, described as a hunting rifle with a scope, toward officers. A sheriff’s sergeant fired
two shots at Flores, both striking him.

Flores was declared dead at the scene.

Sheriff Dave Hencratt arrived at the scene and initiated an investigation incident, which will be
handled by Lt. Matt Hansen from the Red Bluff Police Department.

According to the release, Flores had previous contacts with law enforcement and a history of
mental health issues.

Prior to the shooting, the Crisis Negotiations Team from the sheriff’s office attempted to speak to
Flores, but his verbal attempts to get officers to shoot him continued.

A news release from Shasta College issued Wednesday evening said the school was notified at
11:42 a.m. of a gunman being spotted near the campus.

T he campus was locked down shortly after and followed standard procedure to keep students and
faculty inside before being evacuated with help of the sheriff’s department.

T he campus closed for the rest of Wednesday but reopened to normal operations T hursday.

No students, faculty or officers were harmed in the incident.

(c) 2018 Red Bluff Daily News. All rights reserved. Reproduced with the permission of Media NewsGroup, Inc. by NewsBank, Inc.

 