Patagonia marshal says he didn’t criticize probe - Bulletin (Nogales, AZ)
- July 30, 2018
July 30, 2018 | Bulletin (Nogales, AZ) | Arielle Zionts Nogales International

Patagonia Marshal Joseph Patterson is insisting he did not criticize the ongoing investigation into
the fatal police shooting of a Patagonia resident after he was quoted by a Lake Havasu City
newspaper as saying his confidence in the probe "is low" and that he has questions about the
investigative process.

"I have questions and I have (my) free speech and that is that. Just like the paper can print what
they want. First Amendment, it is on the Constitution. I am certain you have read it," Patterson
wrote in an email to the NI on Monday in which he rejected the idea that he had spoken critically of
the investigation

"If you want to talk to me about your sister paper's 'headline' or 'click bait,' do not bother," he
wrote in regard to an article published last weekend by the Today's News-Herald, a Lake Havasu-
based paper that is partly owned by Wick Communications, which owns the NI.

T he story, "Patagonia town marshal blasts Havasu police shooting investigation," quoted an email
from Patterson regarding the Kingman Police Department's investigation into an incident on July
25 in which Lake Havasu City Police Department officers fatally shot 56-year-old B rent B owdon
B rent B owdon
of Patagonia while responding to an apparent domestic disturbance call in their jurisdiction. KPD,
which is leading the investigation, has yet to release the names of the officers or say why they shot
Bowdon, a well-known Patagonia businessman.

"I could care less how they portray me with a headline. All the hate calls and support calls, I answer
them. Some have been entertaining and I am not scared of Havasu (Police Department) or
anyone," Patterson wrote on Monday.

T he marshal told the News-Herald that he went to Lake Havasu City, approximately 370 miles
from Patagonia, the same day as the early-morning shooting to secure Bowdon's rented home
and belongings, and drive Bowdon's wife back to Patagonia. T he following day, he reportedly
returned and began asking questions, finally reaching a Kingman Police Department detective as
he attempted to glean information about the case for Bowdon's family.

T he detective exhibited an "uncaring attitude," he told the paper, adding: "It rubbed me the wrong
way as a chief of police, and I would hope he does not treat other victims' family that way."

At another point in the story, Patterson was quoted as saying he was waiting for the facts to be
documented and released, but added: "My personal confidence level is low. As for the officers who
took the life of my friend and fellow first responder, I am sorry that he put himself in that position. I
am also sorry if the officers erred in firing the first shot, all the way to the 10th shot, and putting
themselves in that position. I have their names, but I am even more curious why they are

withholding their names."

Patterson told the NI he used a town vehicle to make the initial drive to Lake Havasu City, and
T own Manager David T eel confirmed he gave the marshal permission to use the vehicle, though
he said he wasn't sure if Patterson had been on the clock.

As for Patterson's comments to the News-Herald, T eel said, "I think he was speaking strictly on his
own behalf," adding: "Let's just say that's not the way that I would have approached the issue."

"I would personally hope they do a good and thorough job and (I) won't have any comments until
they're done," T eel said of KPD's investigation.

Patterson told the NI he wasn't acting in his role as marshal or being paid by the T own of
Patagonia during his time in Lake Havasu.

"I find it irritating that honestly you would even ask," he said, adding later that he was "highly
offended" by the question.

Patterson said he used non-town transportation to return to Lake Havasu, where he visited the
home and street where Bowdon was killed.

"While I am not 'investigating' or 'looking into' the incident, I am very curious about many aspects
of this officer-involved shooting," he said in the News-Herald story.

According to a news release issued July 26 by the KPD, officers from the Lake Havasu City Police
Department were dispatched to a home around 2:51 a.m. on July 25 in response to an open 911
call in which a man and woman could be heard screaming at each other.

T hree police officers made contact with Bowdon and "discharged their weapons," according to the
release. Bowdon was pronounced dead on the scene around 3:19 a.m. His wife, who was also at
the scene, was reportedly unharmed.

As of Monday afternoon, the KPD has yet to publish an update on the investigation to its website.

"It's an open, ongoing criminal investigation," Rusty Cooper, KPD spokesman, told the News-
Herald. "I can only imagine the emotional impact this has had on the people who knew (Bowdon).
People want answers, and we understand that, but there are protocols and procedures we have to
follow. We still have people to interview in this case, and we don't want to compromise those
interviews by releasing information prematurely."

Copyrig ht © 2018 Nog ales International. All rights reserved.

 