TBI Identifies Man Shot To Death by Police in - Advocate and Democrat,
The (Sweetwater, TN) - March 16, 2018
March 16, 2018 | Advocate and Democrat, The (Sweetwater, TN) | Staff Report

JONESBOROUGH – T he Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, at 5:45 p.m. Friday, March 16,
identified the man fatally shot by police on Highway 11E earlier in the afternoon as M ark Clinton
M ark Clinton
H arrell, Jr., 26, of Church Hill.
H arrell

At the request of 1st District Attorney General Tony Clark, T BI Special Agents are investigating the
circumstances that led to an officer-involved shooting Friday afternoon in Jonesborough.

Preliminary information indicates that just before 1:00 p.m., the Jonesborough Police Department
received a complaint concerning possible drug activity at a hotel located along East Jackson
Boulevard/ Highway 11E. Upon arrival, officers encountered a male subject in the parking lot. T he
man displayed a large knife and threatened to harm himself before leading officers on a foot
pursuit. T he foot pursuit crossed over E. Jackson Boulevard and ended in the 400 block. Officers
continued to give the individual orders to drop the weapon, but he refused to comply. At some
point during the second confrontation, the subject reportedly moved toward one of the officers
with the knife. T he situation further escalated and resulted in the officer firing his service weapon,
striking the subject. He was transported to a local hospital where he was pronounced dead. No
officers were injured during the incident.

T BI Special Agents will gather any and all relevant interviews and evidence as part of this ongoing
investigation. Throughout the process, Agents will submit investigative findings to the District
Attorney General for his review and consideration.

Additionally, the T BI does not identify officers involved in these types of incidents and instead
refers questions of that nature to their respective department.

Updates on this investigation will be posted online at T BINewsroom.com as they are available.

Copyrig ht © 2018, The Advocate and Democrat, All Rights Reserved.

 