OHP identifies Talihina shootout suspect - McAlester News-Capital &
Democrat (OK) - May 22, 2018
May 22, 2018 | McAlester News-Capital & Democrat (OK) | Derrick James | Staff writer

Officials released the identity of the suspect behind the T alihina shootout — and the man has a
criminal history.

B radley Daniel Webster, 52, of T alihina, was identified as the suspect that shot at law
B radley Daniel Webster
enforcement officers who were attempting to execute a search warrant on the morning of May
11, according to Oklahoma Highway Patrol Cpt. Paul T immons.

Four troopers suffered minor injuries from either shrapnel from the explosion or from gunfire; a
fifth trooper was struck in his bulletproof vest which stopped the round from penetrating and
ultimately saved his life, according to OHP.

OHP identified the injured troopers as Brett Stephens, Brandon Seward, Sammy Lee, Chris Bunch,
and Chance T uttle. T he troopers were treated and released from a T alihina-area hospital the same
day.

T he investigation into the resulting fire that destroyed two historic buildings in downtown T alihina
is still ongoing, but officials believe that Webster, based on his criminal history, may have had the
building "booby-trapped."

T immons said during the May 11 press conference that the suspect has "a violent criminal history"
and made threats against law enforcement in the past.

Webster also has previous run-ins with law enforcement, including an active criminal case.

LeFlore County District Court documents show Webster is named in an active criminal court case
for charges including felony throw or drop object on motor vehicle, felony malicious injury to
property – over $1000, and misdemeanor breaking and entering without permission. Police allege
in the case that Webster used a rock to damage a vehicle before allegedly breaking into the
vehicle.

Records show Webster waived his rights to a preliminary hearing on May 3 and was scheduled for
formal arraignment on May 29.

A supplemental information sheet prepared by the office of District 16 District Attorney Jeffrey
Smith states Webster was convicted in 2007 for felony first degree endangering welfare of a
minor and was sentenced to six years.

T he News-Capital obtained documents from the Circuit Court of Polk County, Arkansas, that state
Webster was also convicted and sentenced to the following under the same court case number:

1. T en years for felony possession of a schedule six controlled substance with intent to deliver

2. T en years felony possession of drug paraphernalia

3. Six years for felony possession of a defaced firearm

4. T en years for manufacturing a schedule six controlled substance

According to the documents, counts one through four "shall run concurrent" and the fifth count
"shall run consecutive" to the other counts for a total sentence of 240 months. Webster was
credited with 311 days served in jail, court documents state.

Arkansas Dept. of Correction documents state Webster came into custody on March 23, 2007 and
was released on parole Sept. 3, 2009 — a total of 895 days.

T he charges stemmed from an April 2006 home invasion that turned deadly. According to a
probable cause affidavit prepared by then-Polk County, Arkansas, Sheriff Mike Oglesby, Webster
shot and killed two men — Chris Pangle and Thai Flores, both of Henryetta, Oklahoma — who
broke into his then Mena, Arkansas residence — with guns while wearing ski masks.

Webster told investigators that "he was not a violent person" and stated he was at home when
two men broke the sliding glass door and set off the beeper alarm on the door, the affidavit
states. Webster says he saw possibly three people enter the room before he was shot in the right
lower abdomen by one of the men, according to the affidavit.

T he affidavit states Webster then returned fire in the general direction of the intruders and stated
he only recalled striking one and did not know if he shot any of the others, the affidavit states.
Documents show Webster was not charged in the two deaths.

According to the affidavit, statements from two other men that were with Pangle and Flores that
night admitted to investigators that "they were coming to Mena (Arkansas) to rob Webster," which
cleared Webster of any charges for the deaths.

A search warrant of the house after the incident revealed a 9 mm submachine gun, which was
defaced with no visible serial number and was modified to fire fully automatic, the affidavit states.

T he search also revealed an enclosed room with "an elaborate hydroponic marijuana growing
operation," while a second room was also found to have a marijuana growing operation in it and a
total of 292 marijuana plants were found from the search conducted by the Arkansas State Police,
the affidavit states.

According to the affidavit, Webster's wife, Amy, and then 17-month-old son were in the house at
the time of the incident. Amy Webster was arrested for being an accomplice in the marijuana
operation and the child was taken into temporary custody of the Arkansas Department of Human
Services, the affidavit states.

T he investigation into the May 11 incident is still under investigation by multiple agencies, including
the Oklahoma Highway Patrol, the Bureau of Alcohol, T obacco, Firearms and Explosives, and the
Fire Marshal's Office.

Contact Derrick James at djames@mcalesternews.com

Copyrig ht 2018, McAlester News-Capital & Democrat / Community Newspaper Holding s, Inc. (CNHI). All Rights Reserved.

 