Oklahoma Highway Patrol recognizes tactical team - Oklahoman, The
(Oklahoma City, OK) - November 30, 2018
November 30, 2018 | Oklahoman, The (Oklahoma City, OK) | Silas Allen Staff Writer sallen@oklahoman.com

T he Oklahoma Highway Patrol on Thursday recognized a team of troopers that took heavy
injuries during a gunfight in eastern Oklahoma earlier this year.

Five members of the tactical team were injured during a firefight that ensued when they attempted
to serve a no-knock search warrant early in the morning of May 11 in T alihina. A sixth trooper,
Sammy Lee, was saved from a bullet by his ballistic vest.

During a news conference Thursday in Oklahoma City, Lee said he didn't notice he'd been hit until a
medic spotted the bullet in the vest. Lee described the vest as "outstanding."

During the news conference, Mike Schoenberger, a representative for Armor Express, a body
armor manufacturer, presented Lee with a new vest to replace the one he wore during the
firefight.

Schoenberger, a former Oklahoma City police officer, said law enforcement officers should always
be able to count on their training, their equipment and their fellow officers during incidents like the
one last May.

T he incident began shortly after 6 a.m., when the tactical team breached a door at a home in
T alihina to serve a search warrant, said Capt. Tim T ipton, the highway patrol's tactical team
commander. T he home was the residence of Bradley Webster
violent criminal history.

B radley Webster, 52, whom authorities said had a

As soon as troopers breached the door, a shootout ensued. Troopers Brett Stevens, Brandon
Seward, Chris Bunch, Jason Ross and Tim Wesley all suffered minor injuries in the shootout.
Webster was shot and killed.

After the melee, the team fell back. Moments later, Lee noticed fire coming from inside the
building, T ipton said. T he T alihina Fire Department was on standby, and troopers notified them
about the fire. While attending to the injured troopers, medics noticed Lee's ballistic vest had
stopped a bullet from striking his lower right torso, T ipton said.

After the fire was extinguished, investigators found Webster's body inside the burned-out home,
as well as an AR-15 rifle, an Uzi automatic pistol, a handgun and numerous cartridge cases, T ipton
said.

T ipton said the incident was a testament to the team's experience and professionalism. Although
the tactical team serves dozens of search warrants per year, the incident last May was unusually
chaotic because of the fire and because Webster had automatic weapons, he said.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Oklahoma Publishing  Company

 