Talihina shootout suspect named - Poteau Daily News & Sun (OK) - May
23, 2018 - page 1
May 23, 2018 | Poteau Daily News & Sun (OK) | Amanda Corbin PDN Reporter | Page 1

T he Oklahoma Highway Patrol has officially identified the suspect in a May 11 shootout and fire in
downtown T alihina that left the suspect dead, four troopers injured and two buildings destroyed.

T he suspect was identified as 52-year-old Bradley Daniel Webster

B radley Daniel Webster of T alihina.

T roopers with the OHP Tactical Team executed a drug-related warrant on Webster’s residence in
the downtown area around 6 a.m. when he allegedly shot at police.

OHP Lt. Paul T immons said Webster may have “booby trapped” the building with an explosive
device, which ignited the building and another on fire when the troopers entered. T hey also were
met with gunfire and returned fire. Four troopers received minor injuries and a fifth was saved by
his ballistic vest. T he five troopers included Brett Stephens, Brandon Seward, Sammy Lee, Chris
Bunch and Chance T uttle.

Downtown T alihina was blocked off for a week as law enforcement combed the scene and
removed Webster’s body from the debris. In addition to his building, the old Treats and T reasures
was destroyed and has since been caved in. T he new Treats and T reasures, which was next door
to the former building, received smoke and roof damage.

In a press conference on the day of the shootout, T immons said the suspect — since identified as
Webster — had been known to police and had a criminal record. He said Webster had made anti-
police remarks in the past and said he would not be going back to prison. Webster had contacted
the Poteau Daily News more than once in the past with complaints about local law enforcement.

Webster was believed to have been housing or manufacturing drugs in the building.

In LeFlore County District Court, Webster had an ongoing felony criminal case filed in November on
accusations of throwing or dropping an object on a motor vehicle, malicious injury to property over
$1,000 and breaking and entering without permission. T alihina Police Chief Rodney Faulkenberry
worked the case. Webster was alleged to have used a rock to damage a vehicle then breaking into
it. He had been slated for a formal arraignment on May 29.

In 2006, Webster shot and killed two men who broke into his home near Mena, Ark. T he men —
Chris Pangle, 35, and Thai Flores, 23 — reportedly attempted to rob Webster. Webster was shot in
the abdomen and returned fire. His wife and 17-month-old son were reportedly home at the time.

A search of the residence allegedly uncovered a hydroponic marijuana growing operation with 292
plants. Although not charged in the deaths of the men, due to Webster defending himself and his
property, he was charged with endangering the welfare of a minor and drug-and firearm-related

charges.

T he T alihina fire and shootout ignited a multi-agency and multi-county response, with 18 fire
departments responding from several bordering counties as well as a number of emergency
management organizations.

T he OHP Criminal Investigations Division, the Bureau of Alcohol, T obacco, Firearms and Explosives
and the Fire Marshal’s Office are investigating the case.

Copyrig ht 2018, Poteau Daily News & Sun, All Rights Reserved.

 