
 
A 27-year-old man was killed in a police-involved shooting Saturday morning after striking an officer with his

vehicle in a church parking lot, according to state police. 

Gregory Stough, of the 200 block of Dicks Dam Road in New Oxford, was pronounced dead at the scene at 4:24

a.m., according to York County Coroner Pam Gay. 

Pennsylvania State Police Public Information Officer Brent Miller said Northern York County Regional Police

officers initially were checking out a suspicious vehicle in the parking lot of Stillmeadow Church of the Nazarene

on Stillmeadow Lane, near Susquehanna Trail, in Manchester Township. 

An officer made contact with Stough in his Pontiac Bonneville around 3:21 a.m. The officer discovered Stough was

wanted on four traffic warrants related to vehicle inspections. Stough also had a suspended driver's license, police

said. 

vehicle." 

A second officer arrived to help take Stough into custody. Stough resisted arrest, and during the struggle, he put

his car in reverse with the driver's door still open, police said. He accelerated backwards, trapping the second

officer between the door and the car. 

According to police, Stough continued driving in reverse and "propelled the officer violently into a parked police

The first officer opened fire. Stough put the car in drive and traveled toward the officer who was firing at him,

police said, before being fatally wounded. 

One Northern York County Regional Police Officer suffered minor injuries during the incident. The second officer,

who fired his pistol at Stough, is on administrative leave. 

State police are investigating, which is the protocol for a police-involved shooting. The York County Coroner's

Office and District Attorney's Office are also investigating. 

An autopsy will be scheduled at Lehigh Valley Hospital. 

Family members said Saturday they weren't sure why Stough was at the church parking lot, but his father

speculated his son might have been out drinking in the area. Stough might tried to stay with some family who lived

near the church, but then tried to "sleep it off" in the parking lot. 

Stough had some trouble with the law and with drinking but had recently been trying to turn himself around

because he has daughters, according to his sister. 

This is the second week in a row that Northern York County Regional Police used deadly force. 

An officer responding to a 911 call in Dover Township fatally shot Isaiah Christian Green, 21, on Dec. 28 after Green

approached the officer with an AR-15 rifle, police said. 

That case remains under investigation. 

More inside 

Church statement 

Family of man shot by police 'trying to piece it together.' 8A 

Stillmeadow Church of the Nazarene issued the following statement Saturday morning: 

"As the media has reported, a life was lost. As a church family, we continue to recognize the brokenness of our

world. Today, we are again reminded of that brokenness. Jesus remains the Prince of Peace and gives peace no

matter the circumstances. We are calling on all to be in prayer as we process this together." 

A law enforcement officer walks outside of Stillmeadow Church of the Nazarene in Manchester Township on

CAPTION:  

Saturday. 

Chris Dunn/York Daily Record 
 
 
