
 
The man shot and killed by Northern York County Regional Police in a church parking lot early Saturday morning

had his run-ins with the law, but he was trying to make changes, his family said. 

Wayne Stough Jr. said he called his son, Gregory Stough, 27, on Saturday to make plans to see each other. 

"I just tried to call him because he was going to bring his girls by for their Christmas presents," Stough said,

referring to Gregory's daughters. "Then, 10 minutes later, my ex (Gregory Stough's mother) called me." 

She told him their son had died. He had been shot by Northern York County Regional Police in the parking lot of

Stillmeadow Church of Nazarene. 

police. 

Stough said his family has a lot of questions about what happened that led to his son being shot and killed by

He said his son was in the area to visit family who live near the church, but they weren't home. Stough speculated

that his son might have been out drinking and decided to "sleep it off" in the church parking lot. He emphasized

that police did not say that's what had happened. 

Stough said his son struggled with alcohol abuse. 

Keesha Wolfe, Gregory Stough's older sister, said her brother's problems with alcohol and his legal trouble were the

reason they had grown apart until recently, when they started to rebuild their relationship. 

"My brother has been in a lot of trouble," Wolfe said. "He's been in trouble, but he's straightened up." 

Wolfe, of Hagerstown, Maryland, cried as she talked about how she grew up with her brother in the Spring Grove

area, but how as adults they grew apart. Recently, the two were growing close again, she said. 

"He was a good dad, his kids meant everything for him," Wolfe said. "He made a lot of changes in his life for his

girls." 

She remembered how he told her his plans for the future when they saw each other at Thanksgiving. 

The last time Wolfe saw Gregory was on Christmas when they gathered at their father's house. "It was normal," she

said. "He was normal. He had a clear head." 

recently gotten out of prison, Wolfe said. 

In the past, Wolfe said, her brother didn't always have a clear head. He had problems with alcohol, and he had

According to York County Prison records, Gregory Stough was released from the prison Sept. 28, 2017, after being

incarcerated for not paying fines and costs for vehicle offenses. Prison records show he was in prison for two days

The first time he had been sent to York County Prison was in 2013. He was there for 30 days in connection with a

Pennsylvania State Police said Saturday that, at the time Northern York County Regional Police made contact with

Stough in the parking lot of Stillmeadow Church in Manchester Township, Stough had warrants for traffic-related

Wolfe searched for answers about what might have happened that led to police shooting and killing her brother.

State police reported that Stough resisted arrest before striking an officer with his vehicle and trying to run down

before he was released. 

harassment case. 

incidents. 

another officer. 

She wondered how police handled the situation when they encountered her brother in the parking lot. 

"I don't understand how this escalated," she said. 

Wayne Stough Jr. said he is waiting for more information from his son's autopsy and from investigators. He

wondered if police captured any of the incident on video. 

"We're still unsure of all the details of what happened," he said. "We're still trying to piece it together." 

He remembered his son as a funny kid, always good for a laugh. He had his troubles, Wayne Stough Jr. said, "but

yeah, he was a good kid." 

CAPTION:  

Gregory Stough 
 
 
