
 
Jan. 06--ROUND ROCK -- 6:45 p.m. update: Round Rock police said Saturday night that the man shot by officers,

21-year-old Richard Rangel, has died from his injuries. 

3:45 p.m. update: 

Police officers shot and critically wounded a man in Round Rock early Saturday morning after responding to

reports of a suspicious person, police officials said. They said the man fired at officers when they attempted to

arrest him. 

his arrest, officials said. 

Police received a call about 3 a.m. that a man dressed in black was walking around cars near the 1900 block of

Red Rock Drive. Officers found a man there who matched the description and found he had an active warrant for

When officers tried to arrest the man, officials said, there was a struggle and the man drew a gun and fired at

police. The officers, who were not hit, returned fire and shot the man, they said. 

The man was taken to a hospital in critical condition, police said. 

They would not say what the suspect's warrant was for, or any identifying information about him. The officers were

treated at the scene for minor injuries. 

time of the shooting, a spokesman said. 

The two officers involved will remain on leave pending an investigation. They were wearing body cameras at the

Ofelia Melendez, who lives across the street from where the shooting occurred, said she heard from her neighbors

that their security system had awoken them and they'd seen the man near their car. Then, they saw him on

surveillance cameras walking from their house to Melendez's house, and thought he had a gun. 

The neighbors tried to call with a warning, but Melendez and her family slept through the call and the shooting,

awakening only to the hubbub of police outside. Their cars did not show signs of a break-in. 

"It's scary," said Melendez, who has lived in her house on Red Rock Drive 12 years. "The neighbors are all asking on

this email app, 'Do you know what happened?'" 

She remembers a rash of burglaries about eight years ago, but otherwise said it's a quiet neighborhood. The

incident Saturday came as a wake-up call to communicate with each other, Melendez said. 

"Our neighborhood is still really safe, we just have to be more vigilant of our security and neighbors, so when

something like this happens we can call each other," she said. 

CREDIT: By Elizabeth Findell 
 
 
