Tyner: A.C. police shooting tragic, justified - - Press of Atlantic City, The
(NJ) - July 4, 2018 - page 1A
July 4, 2018 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | JOHN DeROSIER Staff Writer | Page 1A

AT LANT IC CIT Y - T he June 22 shooting of Timothy Deal
justified, as Deal attacked an officer with a knife, Atlantic County Prosecutor Damon G. T yner said
T uesday.

T imothy Deal on Kentucky Avenue was tragic but

T yner released video footage from the body cameras worn by the officers on the scene of the
shooting.

"We must not lose sight of the fact that a sworn police officer reported to the scene of an accident
to protect the public, and was attacked for no apparent reason," T yner said in a statement. "T he
officer defended himself and protected the public from untold harm. T his incident reminds us of
how fragile life can be, and we should all be thankful that no innocent bystanders were injured."

T yner also cautioned that the shooting of Deal should not be compared to police shootings
elsewhere in the country, "where unarmed individuals have been assaulted and in some instances
killed."

"Each incident has its own set of facts and must be investigated separately," the prosecutor said.

Steve Young, chairman of the Atlantic City chapter of the National Action Network, said the
prosecutor's decision to release the videos on the same day as Deal's funeral was disrespectful.
Deal's services took place Tuesday at the All Wars Memorial Building on Adriatic Avenue, Young
said.

"T his has disturbed and interrupted (the family's) mourning," Young said. "We are asking everyone
to still come together and support the family."

Later Tuesday evening, family and community members gathered where Deal was shot for a small
memorial. Latasha Whaley placed her hand on the photo of her late cousin, saying Deal was a
great man and a great member of the Atlantic City community.

"T he hardest part of this whole thing to watch is our family and his sister, his nieces ... they're
heartbroken," Whaley said. "T o see our cousin tell her daughter that her uncle - her best friend - is
never coming home was the hardest thing to watch."

T he group that met on North Kentucky Avenue wore red shirts with family photos of Deal, some
shirts with the slogan "Justice for T im."

T he shooting death of Deal happened June 22 on the 600 block of North Kentucky, where officers
were investigating a hit-and-run crash with injuries, according to previous reports. During the

investigation, Deal, who was not involved in the accident, approached and allegedly stabbed one of
the officers with a knife, police and the prosecutor said.

*WARNING GRAPHIC VIDEO*

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="e0be8f44-77cb-11e8-ac45-00163ec2aa77"}}

T he body camera video - two segments were released, each a little more than one minute long -
show Deal approaching one of the officers with a knife and then lunging at him. T he officer, who
has not been identified, yells at Deal to drop the knife and then shoots him several times as Deal
swings the knife.

Deal stumbles backward and then falls to the ground.

T he officers then tell him to drop the knife and roll him over and put him in handcuffs.

After shooting Deal, the officer, whose face is blurred in the video, yells into his radio, "Shots fired,
male down, officers OK. ... I might be stabbed; I'm not sure."

T he injured officer and Deal were transported to AtlantiCare Regional Medical Center, City Campus.
Deal was pronounced dead at the hospital's trauma center. T he injured officer was treated and
released, according to the Prosecutor's Office.

T he shooting led to a rally outside the Atlantic City police station and at the spot of the incident
June 24.

People at the rally, which was organized by Young and Deal's family, demanded the body camera
footage be released as well as Deal's body so it could be buried.

Young said the Prosecutor's Office allowed the family to view one of the body camera videos last
week and released the body.

"T his is not the fault of the family or the community," Young said. "We are proud that the Atlantic
City community came together and protested this peacefully."

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="f9f715ea-7711-11e8-84c5-00163ec2aa77"}}

Whaley said the vigils and demonstrations will continue, with the next community vigil being held
this Friday. "T here's other things (the police) could have done. ... We just want justice for my
cousin," Whaley said.

T he Southern Regional Medical Examiner's Office conducted an autopsy of Deal and determined
he died from multiple gunshot wounds, according to the Prosecutor's Office. T he investigation is
ongoing pending, but not limited to, submission of evidence to the New Jersey State Police
Ballistics Laboratory, according to the Prosecutor's Office.

T he prosecutor's Major Crimes Unit is conducting the investigation without the participation of the

Atlantic City Police Department, as per guidelines from the New Jersey Attorney General's Office.

{{tncms-asset app="editorial" id="ccd03546-77ee-11e8-94ee-00163ec2aa77"}}

Contact: 609-272-7260JDeRosier@pressofac.comT witter @ACPressDeRosier"

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 