Man shot by police is confirmed dead; AC cop who - Star-Ledger, The
(Newark, NJ) - June 24, 2018 - page A12
June 24, 2018 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ) | Page A12

atlantic city

Authorities are investigating a fatal police-involved shooting in Atlantic City involving a man who
has been confirmed dead and a police officer who was stabbed.

According to the Atlantic County Prosecutor’s Office, officers were dispatched to the 600 block of
North Kentucky Avenue on Friday for a hit-and-run.

While police were at the scene, Timothy Deal
with a knife, the report said.

T imothy Deal, 32, approached and stabbed an officer in the torso

T he officer then fired his weapon. Both the officer and Deal were taken to the AtlantiCare Medical
Center City Campus Trauma Center, where Deal was pronounced dead. An autopsy confirmed
Deal died from multiple gunshot wounds.

T he officer, whose name has not been released, was treated and released.

T he Atlantic County Major Crimes Unit is conducting the investigation. Anyone with information is
asked to contact the major crimes unit at 609-909-7800 or after hours 609-909-7200. — T aylor
T iamoyo Harris

A 26-year-old man was arrested following an explosion in Cranford on Wednesday evening,
authorities said.

Witnesses reported hearing an explosion near Raritan Road and Summit Terrace around 7 p.m.,
police said in a statement.

Officers checked surveillance cameras, interviewed witnesses and obtained a search warrant
before taking Michael Kossup into custody at his Linden home T hursday. He was charged with
possession of prohibited devices. Police didn’t say what those devices were. He was also found
with a small amount of marijuana, police said.

Linden police, the New Jersey Office of Homeland Security, the Union County Sheriff’s Office, the
prosecutor’s office and a county SWAT  team took part in the investigation. Cranford police didn’t
immediately return a call from NJ Advance Media seeking additional information. — Jeff Goldman"

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Star-Ledg er. All Rights Reserved. Used by NewsBank with Permission.

 