Stepson recounts fatal shooting - Chad Hayashi - Denver Post, The (CO) -
August 2, 2018 - page 2A
August 2, 2018 | Denver Post, The (CO) | 7News | Page 2A

T he stepson of the man shot and killed early Monday morning by Aurora police says he awoke
early that morning to find a woman he didn't know standing in his bedroom doorway.

"And she starts saying to me, 'My son is on drugs and he has your baby,' " Chad Hayashi said.

In an interview with ABC News on Wednesday, Hayashi said there were just seconds between when
his stepfather, Richard "Gary" B lack
assaulted his son and when police shot his stepfather dead.

Richard "Gary" B lack Jr., shot the man who'd broken into their home and

As Hayashi looked over the woman's shoulder that morning, he says, he saw another man in the
house and the bathroom lights on.

"I immediately just shot into the bathroom to find this naked guy soaking wet ... choking my son,
biting his left ear," Hayashi said.

He said he pressed his thumb against the man's throat to get him to release his jaw from the
boy's ear, then had to jam his thumb "up to the first knuckle" into the man's eye socket.

"When he didn't squeal in pain or anything, I got even more worried," Hayashi said.

But the man, who has still not been identified by police, let the boy go and Hayashi said he was able
to flip the man out of the bathtub.

Black was there with him in the bathroom, apparently having confronted the intruder just before
Hayashi awoke. T he two struggled with the intruder before Black shot the intruder twice in the
torso, according to Hayashi.

"My dad exited the bathroom, went around the corner, and I immediately heard multiple shots,
which I thought was my dad engaging these other people in the house," Hayashi said. "T here was
a pause, and then I hear people start screaming 'Police!' and I hear people enter the house. And my
son starts screaming 'I'm here with my dad. T his crazy guy tried to attack me.' "

"And as I turned the corner, my dad is face down ... and he's handcuffed. And I reached down and --
I don't remember if I touched his shoulder or his face -- but he looked at me and I got pushed off
by an officer out the door," Hayashi said.

Hayashi and his mother were taken to a police station, where they had to wait for hours before
being told that Black was dead, he said. But he said he already knew.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Denver Post Corp.

 