Black remembered as a hero at funeral - 73-year- - Denver Post, The (CO)
- August 26, 2018 - page 1B
August 26, 2018 | Denver Post, The (CO) | Noelle Phillips Noelle Phillips, The Denver Post | Page 1B

As three men in American Legion uniforms folded an American flag into a tight triangle, Jeanette
Black clutched the hand of her 11-year-old grandson as they mourned the man who had saved
them from a violent intruder only to be shot and killed by an Aurora police officer who had
responded to their 911 call.

T he boy wiped tears streaming down his face as two buglers played taps, and his father pulled him
Richard Gary B lack Jr., the 73-
close as family, friends and military veterans celebrated the life of Richard Gary B lack
year-old Vietnam veteran who died July 30 in what has been described as one of the most tragic
police shootings in the city's history.

After Saturday's service at Fairmount Cemetery, Jeanette Black said she felt good about the tribute
-- even the presence of Aurora Police Department Chief Nick Metz and a handful of other
uniformed officers. T he service reflected her husband's dignified personality, she said.

"I miss him tremendously," she said. "T here was never a day where we didn't love each other."

Black's heroism on the battlefield and his heroism on the day he died were front and center during
the service.

"He was a hero coming out of that war, and he died a hero defending his family," said Mark Potter,
chaplain for American Legion Post 22 in Northglenn.

T he Rev. Kate Bradsen, the officiant, acknowledged Black's death as an "unspeakable tragedy" and
one that his family may never understand.

"It's hard to think of Gary's death as peaceful. It was anything but," Bradsen said. "God was with
Gary because God always was with Gary."

T he shooting death happened after a naked intruder burst through the Black family's front door
about 1:30 a.m. and attacked the 11-year-old grandson, who was sleeping on the couch. T he
intruder, who was a stranger to the Blacks, carried the 11-year-old to a bathroom and began
assaulting him in the bathtub.

T he boy's father, Chad Hyabashi, and Black fought the intruder, who hit Black in the head with a
vase during the fight. Unable to pull the intruder off the child, Black retrieved his 9mm handgun and
killed the intruder.

Aurora police officers heard Black's gunfire and, as they approached the house, saw Black turn a
corner holding a gun and a flashlight. Officers yelled for Black to drop the gun but never identified

themselves as police. When Black did not drop his gun, one officer fired four shots, killing Black.
T he officer had been involved in a shooting the previous month and had been back on the job for
just over two weeks.

T he scene has been described by Metz as violent and chaotic. T he intruder had been at a party
across the street, and a crowd, which included his mother, had chased him into the Black family
home. T here was screaming and yelling from the partygoers and the child who was being
attacked.

T he shooting has raised questions about how police officers are trained to recognize law- abiding,
armed homeowners and how departments prepare their officers to return to work.

T hose issues were set aside during Saturday's service as a community mourned together.

Jeanette Black said she had invited the Aurora police because she wanted her children and
grandchildren to respect law enforcement in spite of what happened.

"T hey're still here to protect all of us," she said. "T hey're still representatives of our city."

Gary Black was born on a dairy farm in Anderson, S.C., in 1945. His father abandoned the family,
and his mother remarried. But the family struggled financially and with the illness of a younger
stepbrother.

At age 12, Black asked a church pastor for help, and he ended up moving to the Epworth Children's
Home, an orphanage in the state capital of Columbia.

T here, he worked on the school's farm and cut hair. As an adult, Black would tell his family that
Epworth had saved his life and he was a generous donor, Jeanette Black said.

He earned a scholarship to T he Citadel and graduated in 1966. By 1967, he was in Vietnam working
as an intelligence officer. Black served two tours -- July 1967 to February 1968 and April 1970 to
October 1971. He was awarded four Bronze Stars and a Purple Heart for his service.

After receiving an honorable discharge, Black settled in Aurora after being offered a job by Carl
Fronabarger, an Army buddy. Fronabarger owned the S.O.S. Motel and C&C Motors on Sixth
Avenue in Aurora. Black managed the motel and lived there, and the two of them eventually
opened the Sandtrap Lounge at the motel.

"We were like brothers," Fronabarger said. "I never heard him say a cross word about anybody or
anything."

Black met Jeanette, a single mother, in 1974 at the Blue Onion, where she worked as a hostess.

"He was very, very quiet," Jeanette Black said. "I thought, 'He's in here all the time. What's going
on?' "

Black eventually spoke, and the two fell in love.

T hey married and had two daughters -- Catherine and Elizabeth. T ogether, they managed the
hotel and lounge while raising the daughters and Jeannie's son. In 1990, Black went back to school
to study accounting and computer information systems. He became a CPA in 1994 and went to
work for the IRS until he retired in 2015.

T hey had bought their home at 10609 E. Montview Blvd., two weeks after they married. Jeanette
Black said she had once asked for a bigger home because she wanted to add a sewing room, but
her husband had insisted it would be their home for the rest of their lives.

T here, he kept an immaculate garden and built a zipline in the backyard for his four grandchildren.

After the memorial service, Black's grandchildren and daughter, Catherine Braun, spoke about his
life. T he 11-year-old boy, whose life he saved, said his favorite memory of his grand- father would
be their Saturday trips to Sam's Club.

Braun recalled trips to hardware stores, his grilling skills and his daily bowl of ice cream. He was the
only father who would attend her Girl Scout camping trips, she said.

"It didn't bother him even when he ended up setting up all of the tents," she said. "You knew his
love for you in everything he did."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Denver Post Corp.

 