Witness kept filming shootout as it unfolded - Columbus Dispatch, The
(OH) - May 15, 2018 - page 1A
May 15, 2018 | Columbus Dispatch, The (OH) | Holly Zachariah and Patrick Cooley | Page 1A

T he first 911 calls started coming in just about 6:25 p.m. Saturday, with people telling dispatchers
at both the Columbus Division of Police and the Franklin County sheriff's office about the erratic
driver in the Ford-F250 pickup who was wreaking havoc on the city's West Side.

T he truck, callers said, had hit a vehicle in the area of Bohnburg Avenue and Big Run Bluffs
Boulevard and took off. T he driver was running red lights, weaving and speeding, and maybe had
even hit a house.

Franklin County Deputy Sheriff Jacob Heaberlin, 29, heard all this unfolding over just a couple of
minutes and intercepted the pickup. He tried to make a stop near Clime Road but the driver --
whom authorities identified as 55-year-old Darrell B ruf f y
Pike.

Darrell B ruf f y of Orient -- kept going down Harrisburg

And that's where 19-year-old Ryan Smith can pick up the story. He was an up-close eyewitness to
the mayhem that unfolded at the intersection of Harrisburg Pike and Eakin Road on Saturday night
-- and used his iPhone 6S to record the ensuing gunbattle that left Bruffy dead and Heaberlin
wounded.

Smith and his girlfriend had just pulled away from a Burger King and were northbound at the traffic
light on Harrisburg Pike when Bruffy's black truck sped up behind them with a sheriff's cruiser right
on its tail. Turning onto Eakin Road, the pickup fishtailed and crashed into a pole in front of the Shell
gas station. And Smith, who lives just a couple miles down Eakin Road, started recording from the
passenger seat of his girlfriend's Chrysler sedan.

He watched the deputy -- whom he now knows was Heaberlin -- draw his gun and take a couple of
steps toward the pickup.

"T he cop was saying 'Get out of the car, get out of the car,'" Smith recalled Monday. "T hat's when
I realized I wasn't just recording the end of a car chase. T hat's when I thought, 'T his could really go
south.'"

T hen, the first of what sounds on his video like at least 33 shots rang out in three separate bursts
over the course of less than a minute. "I was like, 'We gotta hit the deck,'" Smith recalled. But he
never stopped recording.

Franklin County Sheriff Dallas Baldwin said Monday that Bruffy opened fire with a handgun, hitting
Heaberlin in the lower abdomen just below his armored vest. Heaberlin returned fire, and so did
Franklin Township Police Officers Roger Myers and Joe Sheridan -- both on the force less than a
year, their chief said. Each had roared to the scene after hearing the pursuit.

According to police radio traffic released Monday, Heaberlin said into his mic at 6:44 p.m., "I'm hit
somewhere." T wenty-nine seconds later another voice on the police radio comes across: "Officer
down."

Baldwin said Heaberlin, a seven-year veteran of the sheriff's office who works second-shift patrol,
is tired but in good spirits at OhioHealth Grant Medical Center after surgery.

Chief Deputy Jim Gilbert said Heaberlin will need some time to recover but "he's very much wanting
to get back to the streets."

It will take some time to sort out who hit Bruffy and where, said Chief Deputy Rick Minerd, who
oversees the sheriff's office investigations division. T he Franklin County coroner's office conducted
the autopsy, and it will all become part of the investigation being handled by the Ohio Bureau of
Criminal Investigation.

Even before the 911 calls came in Saturday, Bruffy was known to law enforcement. He was
accused earlier this year of breaking into his estranged wife's house and assaulting her. She told
police he had stolen her .40 caliber Ruger handgun.

When he died Saturday, Bruffy had outstanding arrest warrants for domestic violence, assault,
criminal trespassing and violations of a protection order.

T hat intersection at Harrisburg Pike bustles all the time, with a CVS on one corner, a Walgreens on
another and a small motel nearby. Minerd said investigators are pleased that people had the
foresight to flee the area or get down when the shooting started and that no one else was injured.

Nobody had to tell Smith that. He watched it all firsthand. When the first shots rang out, he
watched the driver in the car in front of his jump over a console and bail through a passenger door,
leaving his vehicle abandoned in the road. A woman who had been on her phone outside the Shell
station hit the ground on her belly. People ran screaming.

Smith, who will be a sophomore at Wittenberg University in Springfield and is home for the
summer, said he was worried only about keeping his girlfriend safe and wasn't really thinking about
what, exactly, his phone was capturing. She laid across the console to avoid the windows, and he
jumped from the car to use the vehicle as cover as the bullets flew. Before she could even
scramble out to follow him, it was over as quickly as it started.

T he couple initially drove away from the scene but returned later to show the video to detectives.
Until they went back, Smith said, they didn't really know the outcome of what they had seen. He
had been hoping, even though his mind already knew better, that maybe everyone would be OK.

It will take some time, he said, to get over what he witnessed.

"I saw this terrible thing happen. You can't prepare your mind for those things that you see. You
just can't," he said. "Nobody wants to see another person die."

hzachariah@dispatch.com

@hollyzachariah

pcooley@dispatch.com

@PatrickACooley

Copyrig ht 2018 The Columbus Dispatch, All Rights Reserved.

 