
 
An interfaith service Sunday honoring the New Jersey man shot and killed by a South Whitehall police office grew

into a united call for justice and reform as several Lehigh Valley religious leaders took to the pulpit, insisting the

country’s humanity is at stake. 

Roughly 100 people of various ages and races gathered Sunday afternoon at the Resurrected Life Community

Church in Allentown to remember Joseph Santos, 44, of Hasbrouck Heights, N.J. Santos was killed by South

Whitehall Township police Officer Jonathan Roselle during a July 28 encounter on Hamilton Boulevard outside

Dorney Park. The Lehigh County district attorney’s office ruled the shooting unjustified. Roselle has been charged

with voluntary manslaughter. 

color. 

Though District Attorney Jim Martin said his investigation did not indicate race was a factor in the deadly shooting,

activists and religious leaders point to a flawed system they say is disproportionately violent against people of

“What is it about black and brown bodies that elicits so much violence?” asked Larry Pickens, ecumenical director

of the Lehigh County Conference of Churches. 

Pastor Greg Edwards opened the service by lifting up Santos’ loved ones and then reading aloud the names of

people killed by police officers across the nation. The long list should disturb anyone, regardless of race, religion or

ethnicity, according to Celicia Baxter, senior pastor of New Creation UCC in Palmer Township. 

A mother of two boys with another baby on the way, Baxter described the powerful love of a parent and how it

should motivate everyone to work toward a world where the humanity of the individual is seen and every person is

treated with dignity and respect. 

“We want a home where police officers only use deadly force as the absolute last resort, in the most extreme of

cases —not as the first resort,” she said. “I say this as a white mother of white boys because when one part of the

body suffers, we all suffer. Our criminal justice system has no justice until there is justice for all. We are not free,

until we are all free.” 

Rev. Benjamin T. Hailey, a senior pastor of Union Baptist Church, spoke softly to those gathered, encouraging them

to think hard about what they feel when they take stock of him: a tall, black man. 

“What do you see, when you see me? Do you see a pastor? A man of integrity? Or do you see another one of those

black boys and so you need to clutch your purse?” Hailey asked. 

“Social engineering has caused us to believe things about one another that are vastly far from the truth,” he said.

“If we really search our minds, we’ll understand that we’re really no different from one another.” 

Arlene Figueroa, the partner of Joseph Santos and the mother of his daughter, said she’s been praying for the

South Whitehall police officer charged with shooting him. 

“You were the last person to see Joey alive,” she said, trembling before Sunday’s service. “I don’t have hatred in my

heart because God ... God gives me strength. And I just pray for you.” 

Videos taken by eyewitnesses just prior to the shooting show Santos hanging off moving vehicles. When Roselle

pulls up to the scene, Santos can be seen jumping on the hood of the police cruiser and splaying himself across

the windshield. Figueroa said that behavior is not indicative of the man she knew. Asked if she knew what might

have been happening, she could only say the case remains under investigation. Authorities are awaiting the results

of a toxicology test performed at Santos’ autopsy. 

18-year relationship and an 8-year-old daughter. 

During the ceremony, a tearful Figueroa described how she and Santos were still incredibly close after a sharing an

Santos, she said, adored the girl. He would paint her nails and hold tea parties with her and her dolls. Their

daughter, Figueroa said, has autism and is still reeling from the death of her grandfather. Figueroa said she’s yet to

reveal to the girl that Santos was killed. But she knows the time is coming. 

Meanwhile, Figueroa said, the healing has been hard. 

“I have to tell my legs ‘Left and right’ every day. They say you heal day by day. But I haven’t seen no change yet.” 

Video of the encounter between Santos and Roselle shows Santos, unarmed, approaching the officer. Roselle can

be heard ordering Santos the ground, but Santos continues to walk toward him. Authorities say Santos said “don’t

do it” as he approached the officer, but didn’t comply to Roselle’s orders. 

Five shots ring out in the video before Santos crumples to the ground. 

The Lehigh County district attorney’s office has determined the shooting was not justified. District Attorney Martin

said the officer had multiple non-lethal tools with him at the time of the shooting, including a taser, a baton and

pepper spray. 

Roselle has been charged with voluntary manslaughter. Martin, in his announcement, cited the inexperience of the

officer, who’d been on patrol only five months, as a key factor in the shooting. 

The interfaith service was held at the same time as a pro-police rally organized in grassroots fashion through a

Facebook group called Support Officer Jonathan Roselle. The peaceful demonstration was held near where the

South Whitehall Township rookie officer shot and killed Santos. The rally has come under some criticism for its

choice of a location. 

swojcik@mcall.com 

Twitter @Sarah_M_Wojcik 

610-778-2283 

Credit: Sarah M. Wojcik 
 
 
