
 
Besides showing video from South Whitehall police officerJonathan Roselle’s body camera that captured the July

28 killing of Joseph Santos, Lehigh County prosecutors on Thursday presented snippets of two other videos, one

from Roselle’s vehicle and the other from another officer who desperately tried to save the fallen man. 

Projected on wall in the packed Lehigh County courtroom, Roselle’s dash-cam video shows Roselle driving off the

median after a woman, in hysterics, told him about a man, later identified as Santos, trying to break into her car. 

The dash camera captures Roselle making a U-Turn and then driving north on Hamilton Boulevard, where he pulls

up behind a red Jeep in front of the Comfort Suites hotel. Santos can be seen next to the Jeep, which drives off

shortly after Roselle stops his patrol vehicle. 

A shoeless Santos starts walking toward Roselle’s vehicle and he disappears from the dash cam's view when he

approaches the driver’s side window. Roselle could be heard repeatedly ordering him to “Go that way! Get in front

of the vehicle!” 

Santos re-appears when he jumps onto the hood of Roselle’s vehicle. 

camera from its mounting, leaving the camera dangling from a wire. 

That video ended before the shooting. 

Roselle continues giving him orders as Santos pounds the windshield with an open hand, eventually knocking the

Chief Deputy District Attorney Jeff Dimmig then presented body-camera video of township officer Kevin Smith, the

first officer to arrive after the shooting. 

kept coming, he wouldn’t stop.” 

Smith's camera footage begins as he runs toward Roselle. Without being asked what happened, Roselle says, “He

Santos is face down in a pool of blood next to the rear driver’s side tire of the patrol sport-utility vehicle. 

As Roselle again tells Smith that Santos “kept coming at him,” Smith tells Roselle that they’re going to perform

cardiopulmonary resuscitation in an attempt to revive Santos. Roselle blurts out an expletive. 

Smith tells Roselle to get his gloves on, and Roselle answers he only has one. 

Smith again says they have to perform CPR and tells Roselle to get some gloves. 

“He’s done,” Roselle can be heard saying. Smith says something inaudible. “I know, I’m just saying,” Roselle

The video ends as Smith is repeatedly performing chest compression on Santos. Showing only the bloody face of

the victim, prosecutors end Smith’s body cam video after a few seconds. 

responds. 

mgamiz@mcall.com 

Twitter @mannypantalones 

610-820-6595 

Credit: Manuel Gamiz Jr. 
 
 
