Steinberg shuts down council session after - Sacramento Bee, The (CA) -
September 15, 2018 - page 1B
September 15, 2018 | Sacramento Bee, The (CA) | Darrell Smith | Page 1B

Sacramento Mayor Darrell Steinberg abruptly adjourned an emotionally charged City Council
meeting Thursday night a little more than an hour into the session after a series of speakers
peppered their comments with obscenities directed at the dais.

T he outbursts came as anger and frustration continue to mount over the death of another
African-American man at the hands of Sacramento police.

Darell Richards
Darell Richards , a mentally ill 19-year-old African-American man, was shot dead just after
midnight Sept. 6, by officers in a Curtis Park backyard. Richards was carrying a pellet gun. Officers
found Richards crouched under a stairwell a few blocks from where he was first spotted on
Broadway near 16th Street. Officers opened fire when Richards pointed the pistol at them,
Sacramento police officials said.

"T he least you can do is fire those officers. T his shouldn't be happening," Stephanie Periera, who
would be the meeting's final speaker, said from the podium. "Have you heard his mother's wails?
T here's no excuse for your (expletive). F--- you," Periera said.

By then, Steinberg had had enough.

"You must leave the chamber. T here's got to be decorum here. You can't use profanity directed at
any of us," Steinberg said before calling for the next speaker as audience members shouted "Stop
killing us!" from their seats.

After a few more minutes, Steinberg ended the session.

"T he business of the council, being done, is adjourned," he said.

Richards' death last week was months after the death of Brandon Smith while in custody at
Sacramento County Main Jail. T he community was roiled in March by the high-profile officer-
involved shooting of Stephon Clark in a Meadowview neighborhood that sent protesters marching
through Sacramento streets, to the county District Attorney's Office and to Sacramento City Hall,
where demonstrators packed meetings in the wake of Clark's death.

T he tense atmosphere in the days and weeks after Clark's shooting was punctuated by
demonstrations outside chambers and by Clark's brother Stevante Clark sprinting to the council
dais for a face-to-face confrontation with Steinberg.

Months later in July, council members mulled a ban on "abusive or threatening" protesters at
council meetings that would bar people ejected from two or more meetings in a six-month period

from council sessions for 30 days and impose a 90-day ban on those ejected from three or more
meetings during that same six-month span.

City officials on Friday said the council has no current plan to bring back those proposed changes
to the rules and procedures for a vote.

A calmer Stevante Clark spoke T hursday, calling again for police accountability and for the
resource center, library and recreation centers he wants erected in his brother's name.

"T he city feels failed again," Stevante Clark said. "T here's a lot of accountability that needs to be
held on the police department for the things that are happening in the city of Sacramento. We all
should come together and find solutions, because it's messed up what's going on."

One after another, speakers railed against Sacramento police and leveled criticism against council
members and Steinberg, who they suggested was more concerned with council decorum than
officer-involved deaths of black and brown people.

"Stop killing black people. It's really that simple. T he community is coming in here telling you that
black lives matter and asking you to stop killing them - and yet, you're killing them," speaker James
J. Jackson Jr., said addressing Steinberg. "Get your (expletive) together. If you care more about
decorum than you care about people saying, 'Don't kill black people,' then you're a terrible person."

T he aborted meeting also marked two years to the day after Sacramento Black Lives Matter
leader Tanya Faison and others stood before the council to demand action after the deaths of
Dazion Flenaugh and Joseph Mann after being confronted by police.

"On this exact day, we filled up this council chambers. We were fighting for Dazion and for Joseph
Mann. We were fighting for a (police) commission that had more power. We didn't get any of that,"
Faison told council members. "I don't know how you all expect to be respected in this space when
you're not doing anything."

T he mayor also ejected several people who launched profanities from the podium and invoked
council decorum rules that state that those attending council meetings refrain from inappropriate
behavior and derogatory comments.

Sacramento officers slowly converged on another speaker who was repeatedly warned that she
had exceeded her two-minute speaking limit but refused to leave the podium. Audience members
briefly surrounded the speaker and shielded her from officers before she left the chambers.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Sacramento Bee

 