Video shows man had gun, but where he pointed it - Sacramento Bee,
The (CA) - September 15, 2018 - page 1B
September 15, 2018 | Sacramento Bee, The (CA) | Molly Sullivan, Cynthia Hubert, Ryan Lillis and Benjy Egel |
Page 1B

In police video released Friday, Sacramento officers can be heard telling 19-year-old Darell
Darell
Richards
Richards  to drop his weapon before firing on him in a Curtis Park backyard, but the camera angles
of officers' videos do not show Richards in the moments before the shooting.

Richards had a pellet gun, modeled after a 9mm handgun, and allegedly pointed it at officers during
the incident on Sept. 6.

T wo officers fired multiple shots in a rapid burst at Richards, but the body camera on one of them
was turned off at the time of the shooting. Department spokesman Sgt. Vance Chandler said the
camera had accidentally been deactivated earlier when the officer was searching a house. A
barbecue grill obscures sight of Richards on the other officer's camera. In later footage, the pellet
gun can be seen next to Richards' body.

More than two hours of video and audio show a methodical search of the neighborhood, with
officers eventually releasing a K-9 in a backyard before following Richards into the dense and leafy
area. Officers see Richards hiding amid lawn furniture and garden equipment under a staircase and
say, "Show me your hands, show me your hands, put the gun down," before unleashing a volley of
bullets.

While camera angles do not definitively show Richards pointing his pellet gun at officers, at least
two officers say that he pointed the gun at them in conversation and radio communications.

Richards' sister, Marlena Lee, expressed outrage after the family viewed the video Friday at police
headquarters on Freeport Blvd.

"T hey have no proof," she said. "T hey had no proof that my brother did anything, other than hide
from them. Nowhere do these videos show that he pointed a gun."

Lee said police told the family that the camera that would have shown that image was "accidentally
turned off," possibly after an officer "bumped into something."

"We thought that today we might get some closure," Lee said. "But we got nothing. I saw my
brother shot dead in a pool of blood. In my mind, he was murdered."

In video, a SWAT  officer can been seen removing the pellet gun from next to Richards' body and
throwing it in the dirt. T he officer then removes a knife from the body. He inspects Richards' body,
saying "Got no gunshot wounds to the front of his chest. Got nothing on his back. I'm trying to
figure out where his injuries are."

He then finds "cranial fractures" and blood coming from Richards' ear.

T he incident began at 11:31 p.m. on Wednesday, Sept. 5, when a 911 caller reported that a man
wearing a face mask had pointed a gun at him and was making his way up Broadway with a gun in
his hand, according to a dispatch recording of the call. T he man, wearing a black hoodie cinched
around his face and a medical mask, pointed the gun at bystanders at Tower Cafe and Dimple
Records, according to police radio communications recorded on Broadcastify, an online archive.

Patrol officers found him in the area of 20th Street and Broadway. He bolted on foot when they
tried to talk to him, dropping his backpack as he ran. In it, officers found paperwork for Darell
Darell
Richards , according to radio communications.
Richards

Richards ran south into Curtis Park, hiding in backyards of homes. Officers did not chase Richards
on foot, but blocked off the streets, using K-9 officers and a California Highway Patrol airplane
crew to find him.

Richards was shot more than three hours later by two SWAT  officers when he was found
crouching under a stairwell in the backyard of an occupied Curtis Park home, police said in a press
release after the incident.

Officers performed CPR until fire personnel arrived and pronounced Richards dead at the scene.

Richards grew up in Elk Grove and, following altercations with a younger brother that resulted in
criminal charges, had recently moved in with his grandparents in Oak Park. Interviews and court
records show family members and friends believed Richards was mentally spiraling, showing signs
of paranoia and aggression, a stark change from his mostly quiet and gentle past, they said.

"We worried about schizophrenia," Marlena Lee, Richard's older sister, told T he Bee this week. "We
were trying to get him help, but it came a little too late. It's heartbreaking."

Molly Sullivan: 916-321-1176, @SullivanMollyM

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Sacramento Bee

 