N.J. man shot by detective is ID'd - Philadelphia Inquirer, The (PA) -
October 20, 2018 - page B02
October 20, 2018 | Philadelphia Inquirer, The (PA) | Melanie Burney STAFF WRITER | Page B02

Authorities have identified a Cumberland County, N.J., man who was killed in a police-involved
shooting Thursday in a parking lot in Vineland.

Jacob Servais , 19, of Millville, was shot around 3:30 p.m. Thursday in the lot of Just Four Wheels
Jacob Servais
Car, T ruck & Van Rental on South Delsea Drive, the state Attorney General's Office said. T he
shooting occurred when detectives from the Cape May County Prosecutor's Office and Lower
T ownship police "encountered" Servais, authorities said in a statement.

Servais was shot by one of the detectives, the statement said. T he detectives were conducting a
law enforcement operation at the scene in Cumberland County, according to the statement.

Servais was transported by ambulance to Inspira Medical Center in Vineland, where he was
pronounced dead, authorities said. None of the detectives was injured.

Few details surrounding the shooting or the nature of the law enforcement activity in the area
were released. Peter Aseltine, a spokesman for Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal, declined to
comment Friday and said no additional information would be released.

T he Cape May County Prosecutor's Office and Lower Township police did not respond to inquiries
seeking comment. T he names of the officers, how many were involved in the shooting, or their
statuses were not released.

T he shooting is under investigation by the Attorney General's Shooting Response Team to
determine if the use of deadly force was justified. Under state guidelines, the case may be
presented to a grand jury for review.

T his is the second fatal police-involved shooting in Vineland in three months.

In July, Rashaun Washington, 37, was shot and killed by Vineland police after a standoff outside his
home. Washington told officers that he was holding an explosive device wrapped in a shirt,
according to body camera footage.

An attorney for Washington's family questioned the police account and called Washington's death
a "senseless killing." T he Cumberland County Prosecutor's Office is investigating and will issue a
report that will be reviewed by the Attorney General's Office.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Philadelphia Inquirer

 