911 calls released in fatal shooting Detectives - South Jersey Times (NJ) -
November 21, 2018 - page 001
November 21, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Matt Gray and Alex Napoliello For South Jersey Times | Page
001

Detectives investigating a violent crime in Cape May County believed their suspect in that case
would be at a Vineland vehicle rental business in what would soon escalate into a fatal officer-
involved shooting in the parking lot.

Jacob Servais
Jacob Servais , 19, of Millville, was fatally shot by Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office Detective
John Caccia on Oct. 18.

T he state Attorney General’s Office, which is handling the investigation, has said that Caccia fired
his service weapon three times. But authorities have not said whether Servais was armed or what
he did to threaten the officer.

T he state Attorney General’s Office on Monday made public audio of 911 calls and dispatch
communications from the incident via an NJ Advance Media Open Public Records Act request.

T he calls were heavily redacted to protect information that pertains to the ongoing investigation,
officials said.

According to exchanges between Cape May County detectives and Vineland police, investigators
were waiting for a woman to return a Toyota Carola to Just Four Wheels on South Delsea Drive.

Investigators believed their suspect would be at the business with the woman, the calls say.

T he Attorney General’s Office previously confirmed that Servais was a suspect in a prior violent
crime and that detectives from Lower Township police and the prosecutor’s office were
conducting surveillance in the area of the rental business when the shooting occurred.

Officials have not revealed details about the earlier crime. T hey also have not revealed what
Servais, who was driving a Nissan Altima, did to endanger the detectives.

A use-of-force report filed by the prosecutor’s office states Caccia fired because he was “in fear of
imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury to himself or another officer.”

T he detectives at the scene when the shooting occurred were not wearing body cameras. Recently
released body camera footage, from Vineland officers who responded after the shooting, shows
someone performing CPR on Servais as he lay on the ground next to a vehicle.

While some of the communications released Monday indicated Cape May investigators notified
Vineland police about their planned operations in Cumberland County, other exchanges revealed

confusion over whether this notification had been made.

Servais had a lengthy criminal record.

He was under indictment in two counties and facing indictment in a third when he was killed. He
was also wanted on a bench warrant for skipping a court appearance in Gloucester County.

He was facing indictment on a vehicular homicide charge in Gloucester County following a June
crash that killed a friend in his vehicle.

Servais was indicted in early October on an aggravated assault charge after he allegedly punched
another resident in a juvenile detention facility in Bordentown and broke his jaw.

He was also indicted in Cumberland County this year on a charge of receiving stolen property. T hat
case involved a December 2017 arrest.

Matt Gray, NJ Advance Media, mgray @njadvancemedia.com

Alex Napoliello, NJ Advance Media, anapoliello @njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 