Report: Man drove at police when shot Shooting - South Jersey Times
(NJ) - November 27, 2018 - page 001
November 27, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Matt Gray and Alex Napoliello For South Jersey Times | Page
001

T he South Jersey man shot to death by a detective last month apparently threatened to run down
officers with his car, according to documents released Monday afternoon.

Jacob L. Servais, 19, of Millville, was under investigation for a crime in Cape May County when he
crossed paths with investigators from that county in the parking lot of a vehicle rental business in
Vineland.

Detectives from the Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office and Lower Township Police were casing
the rental business because they believed Servais would be there with an acquaintance who was
returning a car, according to previously released police dispatch communications.

Servais was at the wheel of a Nissan Altima when prosecutor’s office Detective John Caccia fired
three rounds from his service weapon.

T he prosecutor’s office use of force report, made public Monday in response to an Open Public
Records Act (OPRA) request, indicates Servais “resisted police officer control” and
“threatened/attacked officer or another with motor vehicle.”

No detectives were injured.

Apart from the vehicle he was driving, the report indicates Servais had no other weapon in his
possession.

Caccia was in plainclothes during the incident. T he 36-year-old detective is an eight-year veteran of
the prosecutor’s office, according to the report.

T he state Attorney General’s Office is investigating the shooting, which was not captured on body
camera.

Officials have not revealed details of the earlier Cape May County crime that was under
investigation when the shooting occurred, apart from describing it as “violent.”

At the time of his death, Servais was under indictment for aggravated assault in Burlington County,
for receiving stolen property in Cumberland County and was facing indictment for death by auto in
Gloucester County.

Matt Gray, NJ Advance Media, mgray @njadvancemedia.com

Alex Napoliello, NJ Advance Media, anapoliello@njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 