ATTORNEY GENERAL'S SHOOTING RESPONSE TEAM - US Fed News
(USA) - October 31, 2018
October 31, 2018 | US Fed News (USA)

VINELAND, N.J., Oct. 31 -- T he New Jersey Attorney General issued the following news release:

T he Attorney General's Shooting Response Team (SRT ) is continuing to investigate the fatal,
police-involved shooting of a Cumberland County man at a Vineland auto rental business on
October 18, 2018.

T he shooter has been identified as Detective John Caccia of the Cape May County Prosecutor's
Office, and the service weapon involved was a Glock 19 (9mm).

According to the preliminary investigation, on October 18, 2018, Detective Caccia and other
detectives from the Cape May County Prosecutor's Office and Lower Township Police Department
were conducting surveillance in the vicinity of Just Four Wheels Car, T ruck and Van Rental at 2587
South Delsea Drive, Vineland, as part of an investigation of a violent crime that occurred in Cape
May County earlier in October. During the surveillance operation, Detective Caccia encountered
Jacob Servais
Jacob Servais , 19, of Millville, N.J., who was driving a Nissan Altima and was known to the
Detective as a possible suspect in the investigation. During the encounter, Detective Caccia fired
his service weapon three times, fatally wounding Mr. Servais. Officers from the Cumberland County
Prosecutor's Office and Vineland Police Department responded to the scene, and the investigation
into Mr. Servais's death was immediately turned over to the Attorney General's Shooting Response
T eam.

T he nature of any resistance and the use of any weapon on the part of Mr. Servais remain the
subject of that ongoing investigation, and no further information will be released at this time.

In New Jersey, all investigations of police deadly force incidents are governed by the Attorney
General's Independent Prosecutor Directive, issued in 2006 and strengthened in 2015, which
establishes strict procedures for conducting such investigations. It requires the Attorney General
to review all deadly force investigations, and in some cases conduct them as well. In this case, the
investigation is being conducted directly by the Attorney General's Shooting Response T eam. T he
directive further provides that unless the undisputed facts indicate the use of force was justified
under the law, the circumstances of the incident must ultimately be presented to a grand jury,
composed of 23 civilians, for its independent review.

T he Independent Prosecutor Directive is posted on the Attorney General's website at the following
link:

www.nj.gov/oag/dcj/agguide/directives/2006-5_SRT _OIS.pdf .

Further information about how officer-involved shootings are investigated in New Jersey under the

directive is found at this link:

www.nj.gov/oag/independent-prosecutor/.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
contentservices@htlive.com

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 US Fed News, via HT Dig ital Streams Ltd. All rights reserved.

 