Officer is identified in Vineland shooting - - Philadelphia Inquirer, The
(PA) - November 1, 2018 - page B01
November 1, 2018 | Philadelphia Inquirer, The (PA) | Robert Moran STAFF WRITER | Page B01

T he New Jersey Attorney General's Office on Wednesday identified the detective who fatally shot a
19-year-old Millville man two weeks ago in Vineland.

John Caccia of the Cape May County Prosecutor's Office fired his Glock 19 service pistol three
times at Jacob Servais
about 3:30 p.m. on Oct. 18.

Jacob Servais  in the parking lot of Just Four Wheels vehicle rentals at 2587 S. Delsea Dr.

Investigators did not say whether Servais had been armed at the time.

T he Attorney General's Shooting Response T eam, which is continuing to investigate the shooting,
reported that detectives with the Cape May County Prosecutor's Office and Lower Township Police
Department were conducting surveillance in the area of the rental business as part of an
investigation of a violent crime that occurred in Cape May County earlier in the month.

T he shooting response team reported that Caccia "encountered" Servais, who was driving a
Nissan Altima and was a possible suspect in the earlier violent crime, and fatally shot him. Officials
did not give details on the earlier crime.

Servais was taken by ambulance to Inspira Medical Center in Vineland, where he was pronounced
dead. None of the detectives were hurt.

"T he nature of any resistance and the use of any weapon on the part of Mr. Servais remain the
subject of the ongoing investigation, and no further information will be released at this time," the
Attorney General's Office said in a statement.

Caccia has been placed on administrative leave.

T his is the second fatal police-involved shooting in Vineland in three months.

In July, Rashaun Washington, 37, of Camden, was shot and killed by Vineland police after a standoff
outside his home. T hat shooting happened after Washington told officers that he was holding an
explosive device wrapped in a shirt, according to body camera footage.

bmoran@phillynews.com

215-854-5983 @RobertMoran215

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 The Philadelphia Inquirer

 