Shot teen's girlfriend was target of surveillance - Press of Atlantic City,
The (NJ) - December 3, 2018 - page 1A
December 3, 2018 | Press of Atlantic City, The (NJ) | MOLLY BILINSKI Staff Writer | Page 1A

Hours before a detective from the Cape May County Prosecutor's Office fatally shot a teenager in
Vineland, they notified local authorities that they were monitoring a car rental agency for his
girlfriend.

Jacob Servais
Jacob Servais , 19, of Millville, was shot and killed by Detective John Caccia on Oct. 18 during an
investigation into a violent crime that had occurred in Cape May County, according to a statement
from the Attorney General's Office after the shooting.

Servais was known "as a possible suspect in the investigation," according to the statement.

Detectives notified local authorities just after 9:20 a.m. that they were waiting for a woman to
return a blue Toyota Corolla to Just for Wheels Car, T ruck and Van Rental at 2587 S. Delsea Drive,
according to dispatch recordings released by the Attorney General's Office in response to an Open
Public Records Act request.

T he investigation is ongoing, Peter Aseltine, public onformation officer for the Attorney General's
Office, said in an email T hursday. He said the office is not releasing any additional information at
this time before declining to comment further.

T he dispatch recordings are heavily redacted and do not include the name of the woman the
detectives were surveilling.

"Her boyfriend, who usually is with her, has a warrant for his arrest," one detective said.

Over an hour later, Caccia called dispatch and said he and another detective were in the area and
mentioned the woman they awaited.

"Her boyfriend's an (expletive) too," Caccia said. "He's got vehicular homicide - he's got a bunch of
warrants."

Caccia named Servais when the dispatcher asked for the boyfriend's name.

State Police charged Servais in June with death by auto in an Elk T ownship, Gloucester County,
crash that killed Servais' 17-year-old passenger, according to the Daily Journal of Vineland.

T he crash came after a police chase that started in Franklin T ownship, the Journal reported.

After the October shooting took place about 3:30 p.m. in the parking lot of the rental car agency,
dispatchers received multiple calls for police and emergency medical responders. T here is no body

camera footage of the shooting.

Servais allegedly resisted police and threatened or attacked an officer, or another, with a car
before Caccia shot him three times, according to the use of force report.

Caccia has been placed on administrative leave, Cape May County Prosecutor's Capt. Michael
Emmers said. Caccia's annual salary is $73,518, public records show.

T he Oct. 18 incident was the second time this year a man was fatally shot in Vineland by
authorities.

In July, Vineland police fatally shot Rashaun Washington, of Camden, during a standoff outside a
home. Washington threatened to trigger an explosive device.

Contact: 609-272-7241 Mbilinski@pressofac.comT witter @ACPressMollyB

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Press of Atlantic City. All rights reserved.

 