No word yet on why police fatally shot a 19-year- - South Jersey Times
(NJ) - October 25, 2018 - page 010
October 25, 2018 | South Jersey Times (NJ) | Matt Gray For South Jersey Times | Page 010

A man shot to death by a Cape May County detective last week was under indictment in two
counties, facing a vehicular homicide indictment in another county and was wanted on a bench
warrant when he died.

But it’s not clear if any of his legal woes had to do with the confrontation that led to his death.

Jacob Servais , 19, of Millville, was shot in the parking lot of a Vineland car rental business on
Jacob Servais
T hursday afternoon. T he state Attorney General’s Office is investigating the incident, but has
offered few details about what happened.

Authorities have only said that detectives with the Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office and Lower
T ownship police “encountered” Servais as they were “conducting a law enforcement operation.”

One of the detectives shot Servais, who was later pronounced dead at a hospital. No detectives
were injured.

Authorities have not said if Servais had a weapon or if he threatened the officers in any way. T hey
also haven’t said what Cape May County detectives were doing in Cumberland County.

It’s not clear if the detectives’ body or vehicle-mounted cameras captured the incident.

A representative for the Delsea Drive business where the shooting occurred — Just for Wheels Car,
T ruck and Van Rental — said there are security cameras around the establishment, but would not
say if a camera recorded the shooting. He also would not say if Servais was a customer.

Servais was no stranger to law enforcement and had several outstanding charges at the time of
his death.

He was at the wheel of a pickup truck on Route 55 in Elk Township on June 26 when he crashed into
a tree, killing his passenger, 17-year-old Victor M. Garcia, of Vineland.

An officer in Franklin Township had tried to stop the vehicle for an equipment violation a short time
earlier, but broke off the effort on Route 55 when Servais picked up speed and it was obvious he
didn’t plan to stop, according to Franklin Township Police Lt. Matt DeCesari.

Servais was charged with vehicular homicide and skipped a Sept. 6 pre-indictment conference on
that charge in Gloucester County. T hat’s when a bench warrant was issued for his arrest.

In addition to that case, Servais was indicted this month on an aggravated assault charge from July

2017 in Burlington County. Servais was accused of punching another resident at a juvenile
detention facility in Bordentown and breaking his jaw.

He was due in court Oct. 29 for a post-indictment arraignment on that charge.

Servais was also indicted in Cumberland County earlier this year on a charge of receiving stolen
property. T hat case involved a December 2017 arrest.

Efforts to reach members of Servais’ family were unsuccessful.

Copyrig ht 2018 South Jersey Times. All Rights Reserved.

 