Man was suspect in brutal home invasion - Star-Ledger, The (Newark,
NJ) - December 7, 2018 - page 003
December 7, 2018 | Star-Ledger, The (Newark, NJ) | Matt Gray For The Star-Ledger | Page 003

A day before Jacob L. Servais was killed by a detective, prosecutors say he and three others broke
into a South Jersey home and brutally beat a man.

An investigation into that home invasion is what brought detectives to Vineland, where they
encountered Servais in the parking lot of a vehicle rental business on Oct. 18. Servais, 19, of Millville,
was shot to death after investigators say he tried to run down a Cape May County Prosecutor’s
Office detective with his car.

Detectives from that office and Lower Township police were in Vineland surveilling the business as
part of their investigation into the Oct. 17 home invasion in Lower Township in which a homeowner
was restrained and beaten.

Detectives believed Servais would show up in Vineland to pick up his girlfriend, Deshyamma R.
Dalton, 22, of Salem, who was returning a car. Both arrived as expected.

Prosecutor’s office Detective John Caccia fired three rounds from his service weapon as Servais
threatened the officers, according to recently released documents.

In a statement issued Wednesday afternoon, Cape May County prosecutors announced the
arrests of three people, including Dalton, in connection with the Oct. 17 home invasion on Old Mill
Drive in North Cape May.

Servais, Dalton, Michael Woods Jr. and Jeramy J. T hompson-Pierce allegedly entered the home
shortly after midnight and assaulted a 48-year-old man.

T hey restrained the victim and repeatedly struck him with a rifle “over an extended period of time,”
eventually breaking the rifle’s wooden stock, prosecutors said. T he victim suffered “severe” injuries
to his head and hand and was hospitalized for several days.

Up until now, officials had declined to describe the crime for which Servais was being sought when
he died.

Investigators delayed reporting details about the home invasion for fear that other suspects in the
case might flee the state, explained Cape May County Prosecutor’s Office Chief Paul Skill.

Dalton was arrested Oct. 22 and charged with robbery, conspiracy to commit robbery, aggravated
assault, criminal restraint and theft.

T hompson-Pierce, 19, of Vineland, and Woods, 20, of Millville, were arrested Nov. 20 on charges

of attempted murder, robbery, conspiracy to commit robbery, conspiracy to commit attempted
murder, aggravated assault, criminal restraint and theft.

Both were also charged with weapons offenses on Nov. 29.

All three were placed in Cape May County jail pending court hearings.

At the time of his death, Servais was facing charges in three other cases. He was under indictment
for aggravated assault in Burlington County, for receiving stolen property in Cumberland County
and was facing indictment for death by auto in Gloucester County.

Servais’ death remains under investigation by the state Attorney General’s Office.

Caccia, an eight-year veteran of the force, remains on administrative duty pending the outcome of
that review, Skill confirmed.

Anyone with information about the home invasion is asked to contact the prosecutor’s office at
609-465-1135, the Lower Township Police Department at 609-886-1619, the Cape May County
Sheriff’s Tip Line at cmcsheriff.net (click the T ip411 link) or Cape May County Crime Stoppers at
609-465-2800.

Copyrig ht 2018 The Star-Ledg er. All Rights Reserved.

 