The Latest: St. Paul mayor pushes for bodycam - Associated Press State
Wire: Minnesota (MN) - August 7, 2018
August 7, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Minnesota (MN)

ST . PAUL, Minn. (AP) — T he Latest on the fatal shooting of a man by St. Paul police officers (all
times local):

St. Paul Mayor Melvin Carter is pressing for release of police body camera footage taken by two
officers involved in a fatal shooting last weekend.

Carter told reporters Tuesday he wants the police chief to work with the Minnesota Bureau of
Criminal Apprehension to release the video "immediately." But he says key witnesses must be
interviewed and relatives of the man who was killed should view it first.

T he mayor also wants audio release of the 911 call about someone firing multiple shots that
brought officers to the apartment building early Sunday. T he BCA says a preliminary investigation
William James Hug hes  after he emerged from a door.
shows the two officers shot 43-year-old William James Hug hes

Both officers were wearing activated body cameras. Carter says he has not seen the footage but
says it belongs to the city and should be made available as soon as possible.

Personnel files for two St. Paul police officers involved in the fatal shooting of a man on Sunday
show mostly clean records plus words of praise.

Officer Vincent Adams was reprimanded in 2014 for a preventable squad car accident. But he got a
medal of commendation last year, partly for an incident that began with a car chase that officers
broke off for safety. Adams and his partner tracked the suspect down a few weeks later. While
Adams got hurt in the scuffle, he contributed to the success of a crime reduction project while on
light duty.

Officer Matthew Jones has no disciplinary actions in his file, but several thank-you notes, including
one in 2013 from a mental health official praising him for his skills in de-escalating a psychotic man.

5 p.m.

___

4:22 p.m.

___

6:50 a.m.

T he state agency investigating a fatal shooting by St. Paul police has identified the man who died
and the officers who shot him.

T he Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension said Tuesday that 43-year-old William James
William James
H ug hes
H ug hes  died of multiple gunshot wounds early Sunday after officers responded to a 911 call of
gunfire in an apartment building.

T he agency says its preliminary investigation shows Officers Matthew Jones and Vincent Adams
entered an enclosed porch and knocked on an apartment door. Hughes emerged from another
door and officers shot him. He was pronounced dead at the scene .

Authorities say a gun has been recovered.

When the BCA completes its investigation, it will turn over a report to the Ramsey County Attorney
for review on whether charges are warranted.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 