Family wants answers after shooting - Man's cousin - Grand Forks
Herald (ND) - August 7, 2018 - page A5
August 7, 2018 | Grand Forks Herald (ND) | Mara H. Gottfried | Page A5

ST . PAUL - When the family of William "B illy" James Hug hes
by St. Paul police officers, they said, "Not again," his aunt explained Monday, Aug. 6.

William "B illy" James Hug hes  found out he had been fatally shot

A cousin of Hughes', Philip Quinn, was killed in a confrontation with officers in St. Paul in 2015.

"When is it going to stop?" Kathy Ficken, the aunt of Hughes and Quinn, said as she wept after a
rally in Minneapolis. "T hey have to stop. They're ruining every-body's life. He needs justice."

Police said they were called to a multi-unit rental property in St. Paul about 2:30 a.m. Sunday, Aug.
5. T hey were summoned by a 911 caller who reported multiple shots fired, according to police.

When officers arrived, they encountered a man with a gun, police said Sunday. Two officers fired
and struck the man. Para-medics pronounced him dead at the scene.

T he Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is investigating and has not released additional
information. A spokesman said they would when initial interviews are completed. But family and
community members called for answers on Monday.

"Our community experienced a terrible tragedy" when Hughes, 43, was killed, said Dannah
T hompson, Hughes' cousin. She described him as beloved and said he was a member of the White
Earth Nation, a northern Minnesota Ojibwe community.

"T hrough our grief and difficulty, we have been left with more questions than answers as to why
police officers decided to abruptly and violently take Billy's life," Thompson said.

Officers' body cameras were activated at the time of the shooting, and Mayor Melvin Carter is
"looking for an expedited release" of the footage, Liz Xiong, his press secretary, said Monday.

Carter canceled his scheduled plans and meetings on Sunday and Monday "to really focus on this
and work with the chief of police and BCA (Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension) to move
along releasing the video as soon as possible," Xiong said.

Resident saw man's body on front porch

Mary Pinales, who lives in the residence where Hughes was killed, said she was awakened early
Sunday by a gunshot. She looked outside and saw police. Pinales said police officers banged on her
door, told her to put her hands up and asked if anyone else was up there. She said they checked
her apartment and then led her down the stairs, the only way out.

At the bottom of the stairs, on the enclosed front porch, Pinales said she saw her neighbor and
could tell he was already dead.

Pinales said she was barefoot, and officers lifted her up to carry her over the blood and outside.

T he wood floor was still bloodstained Sunday night, but Pinales found the blood had apparently
been scraped off when she returned Monday morning. T here were small holes in the porch's wall
that Pinales said weren't there before and she believes are bullet holes.

Meanwhile, a 12-year-old girl who lives in the building with her family said she was in her bedroom,
just below the porch, and talking to her best friend on the phone early Sunday. She heard loud
footsteps on the porch above, which she figures were officers' shoes. She then heard shouting
and gunshots. Her friend asked, "What is that?" and she responded, "bullets!"

T he girl said she dived under her bed. Her father asked that she not be identified for her safety.

Pinales, who didn't know Hughes well, said he had moved in to the building four or five months
ago. He was a quiet person who did maintenance work around the property. When Pinales needed
her lights fixed, her landlord told her to knock on her neighbor's door and Hughes helped her. He
also did painting around the home, Pinales recalled.

ACLU calls for transparency

T eresa Nelson, legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union of Minnesota, called on Sunday
for the officers' body camera footage to be released.

Nelson said on Monday that U.S. Department of Justice best practices indicate that preliminary
incident information should be released to the public within eight hours, and she said the federal
agency also recommends within 24 hours that authorities should brief community leaders and lay
out a time-line of the investigatory process.

"Whenever police kill someone, it is a tragedy," Nelson said in Monday's statement. "A police
shooting can affect the whole community. T he residents of St. Paul along with the family of the
unnamed individual deserve to know what happened in this tragic incident."

In the case of Phillip Quinn, Hughes' cousin who was killed in 2015, a grand jury did not file charges
against the officers involved.

One cop is son of slain officer

T he BCA hasn't released the names of the officers who shot the man, but sources said they are
Matthew Jones and Vincent Adams, who both became St. Paul officers in 2013.

Jones was 8 years old when his father, St. Paul officer Tim Jones, was shot and killed. It was during
the search for the man who fatally shot fellow officer Ron Ryan Jr. earlier on Aug. 26, 1994.

Ron Ryan Sr., a retired St. Paul police commander and father of Ron Ryan Jr., said he was glad to

hear the officers were uninjured Sunday, but "as far as the toll it takes on them emotionally and the
damage done to their family, it's tremendous, especially in this day and age."

Ryan said he got to know the young Jones after the 1994 murders, for which Guy Harvey Baker
was sent to prison.

"Matt has kind of the same personality as his dad," Ryan said Monday. "His dad was very social,
and Matt seems to be the same way. He's very serious about the job from everyone I talk to, and I
hear that he's a great officer."

Generally speaking, reports of someone shooting a gun in a house "are probably one of the most
dangerous calls (officers) go on," said Sgt. Mike Ernster, a St. Paul police spokesman.

"No officer ever wants to be involved in a situation like this," Ernster said Sunday. "It's something
that changes them forever and obviously impacts the families involved in this, and our heart goes
out to them. It's a tragic situation."

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Grand Forks Herald

 