Body-cam video shows suspect raising weapon - - St. Paul Pioneer Press
(MN) - August 18, 2018 - page A1
August 18, 2018 | St. Paul Pioneer Press (MN) | Mara H. Gottfried mgottfried@pioneerpress.com | Page A1

St. Paul police officers fatally shot a 43-year-old man after he raised a gun "in a sweeping fashion
over the officers," Police Chief T odd Axtell said Friday as he released body camera footage of the
incident.

Mayor Melvin Carter, along with some of William James Hug hes
members, had called for the release of the video in the Aug. 5 shooting. But the footage left some
people with more questions.

William James Hug hes ' family and community

Melissa Waukazo, Hughes' half sister, said she was angered when she saw the video.

"He did have a gun, but he did what they asked him to do and ... they still shot and killed him," she
said Friday.

Hughes' sister, Libby Meyers, met with Axtell to view the footage before he publicly released it. She
gave him two cards -- one for each of the officers involved. T he police chief said he doesn't know
what the cards say, but he intends to hand deliver them to the officers.

Axtell said what happened was a tragedy and added, "Our officers do not choose these situations.
T hese situations choose our officers."

OFFICERS HEARD 'I WILL KILL YOU'

T he confrontation with Hughes began after a 911 caller reported on Aug. 5 at 2:34 a.m.: "Multiple
gun shots. 905 St. Anthony (Ave.) on the second floor" and then hung up, according to a transcript
of the call released by police on Friday.

T he 911 caller, a man who had been staying with Hughes, later told Minnesota Bureau of Criminal
Apprehension investigators that Hughes fired two or three rounds into a bedroom wall and pointed
a gun at his head, according to an affidavit for a search warrant filed in Ramsey County District
Court this week. T he 911 caller ran out of the building in the Summit-University neighborhood.

T he first officers to arrive, Vince Adams and Matt Jones, entered an enclosed porch, Axtell said.

Adams knocked on an apartment door and a man could be heard saying, "I will kill you," Axtell
reported Friday.

"A few seconds later, Mr. Hughes opens the door," Axtell said.

FOOT AGE BRINGS DIFFERING VIEWS

In the body camera footage, the officers can be heard repeatedly shouting, "Put your hands up!"
when the door opens. After Hughes emerges from the doorway with a gun in his right hand, in
audio that's more difficult to make out, an officer apparently shouts, "Put it down!"

Axtell said of the footage, "You will see Mr. Hughes begin to raise the gun in a sweeping fashion
over the officers, who fired their service weapons."

Nekima Levy-Pounds, founder of Racial Justice Network, wrote on social media on Friday: "Do you
agree with the official police narrative on what happened to Billy Hughes? T his is highly disturbing
to say the least."

She added later that the "mere presence of a gun (if that's what was in his hand) does not
automatically pose a threat."

T he BCA has said investigators recovered a gun at the scene.

From the perspective of the St. Paul police union, president Dave Titus said Friday: "We believe our
officers involved acted heroically and are proud of them. T his video is some of the evidence that
demonstrates their professionalism and dedication to protecting innocent lives in our community."

T itus added in a statement, though, that he believes "the department should not have released this
video outside of the context of a complete and thorough investigation. T he officers, family, and
society deserve the complete story and not a piecemeal release of evidence."

HUGHES PREVIOUSLY TALKED OF SUICIDE

Axtell said when he met with the family on Friday, they talked about Hughes' "kind heart, how much
they miss him" and they shared stories of him, saying "that he was a good man, that he was in
pain."

BCA agents interviewed Hughes' relatives after the shooting. Relatives said Hughes had a medical
condition that was diagnosed as a terminal illness, according to a search warrant affidavit. Hughes
also had contact with relatives by text message about four months earlier to say he was
contemplating suicide, the affidavit said.

In a Friday statement, Carter called the body camera footage of Hughes' death "heartbreaking."

"A fatal officer-involved shooting is one of the toughest challenges a city can face," Carter said. "...
All of St. Paul is united today in mourning Billy Hughes, and in wishing this terrible incident had never
happened. As we process the range of emotions his death evokes, I remain committed to building
community, and to ensuring our officers are equipped with the tools, resources, and trust they
need to help us keep our neighborhoods safe."

INVEST IGAT ION IS CONT INUING

T he BCA continues to have an open and active investigation into the case, a spokeswoman said

Friday.

Information from investigations into officer-involved shootings, including video footage, has
traditionally been released in Minnesota after the probe is concluded.

Under Minnesota law, law enforcement agencies can release information to "promote public
safety, or dispel widespread rumor or unrest."

Axtell said Friday that he's "heard the clarion call from some community members for the body-
worn camera videos to be released, but what matters is the law."

He said he needed to answer the question of whether he could, in good conscience, release the
videos before the investigation is complete.

He concluded the answer was "yes" because he said he has "watched people repeat widespread
rumors, I have seen protesters in the street, and I know public angst can endanger our officers."

Axtell said he had also received word from the BCA that its agents had completed interviews with
key witnesses.

Ramsey County Attorney John Choi said in a Friday statement that while the body camera footage
"is one critical piece of evidence, it does not tell the entire story." He said his office will analyze all
the evidence gathered by the BCA to decide whether the officers' use of lethal force was justified
under the law.

"In the interest of speeding up our decision-making timeline, I have asked my team of prosecutors
to conduct our prosecution review simultaneously with the BCA's investigation, which includes
consulting independent use-of-force and police procedure experts," Choi wrote. He said the BCA
has agreed to present his office with evidence as it collects it.

Mara H. Gottfried can be reached at 651-228-5262 and mgottfried@pioneerpress.com, or on
T witter at @MaraGottfried.

Copyrig ht 2018 Saint Paul Pioneer Press

 