
 
May 12--JACKSON, Mich. -- Jackson County Prosecutor Jerry Jarzynka hopes to issue an opinion next week on

whether officers were justified in shooting and killing an armed man suspected of robbing a Blackman Township

dollar store. 

Jarzynka said his office received the full Michigan State Police investigation report, including a stack of discs, on

May 4, and he is thoroughly reviewing the information. 

"You have to go through all the evidence. You have to compare that to the law that applies and reach a conclusion,"

the prosecutor said on Friday, May 11. 

Five officers fired March 11 at Kenneth Scott Townley in the area of Tyson and Watts streets in Blackman

Township. Neighborhood witnesses said he raised a gun and did not drop it as ordered. 

Townley soon after died at Henry Ford Allegiance Health. 

Police believed the 47-year-old, armed with a handgun, held up the Dollar General, 3025 E. Michigan Ave., about

2:25 p.m. Within minutes, police found him walking a few blocks from the business. Officers from three

departments -- Jackson police, Blackman-Leoni Township public safety and the Jackson County Sheriff's Office --

"attempted to make contact" and then fired multiple rounds, state police Detective 1st Lt. Tom DeClercq earlier

said. 

Possibly homeless, Townley also used a handgun to demand a 54-year-old woman's purse and keys about 12:20

a.m. April 11 in the parking lot at the Meijer on E. Michigan Avenue, police believe. Caught stealing last year while

on probation, he had been released from jail about 20 hours earlier. 

His was the first of two officer-involved shootings in three weeks in Jackson County. 

On another Sunday afternoon, Jackson police shot and killed Christopher Lamarr Hall on April 1, while many were

sitting down to Easter dinners, on Chittock Avenue in Jackson. 

Hall badly beat up his girlfriend Heather Jurasek, hitting her with a pistol, and then shot and wounded a Jackson

officer responding to a report of domestic assault, according to Jurasek and state police. The officer and two

others exchanged gunfire with Hall and he died in the yard outside the home he shared with Jurasek. 

The officer recovered; he attended on Wednesday a memorial for fallen officers in downtown Jackson. 

Friday, DeClercq said that investigation is ongoing. Police are waiting on a report from the medical examiner, the

results of toxicology testing and a few laboratory reports. 

He is hoping to have the case information to Jarzynka for his review in a week or two. 

The state police detectives, of the First District Special Investigation Section, based in Lansing, are doing a

detailed, complete and thorough inquiry, Jarzynka noted. "When you do that, it takes time." 

CREDIT: By Danielle Salisbury 
 
 
