Patagonia man fatally shot by Lake Havasu police - Bulletin (Nogales,
AZ) - July 26, 2018
July 26, 2018 | Bulletin (Nogales, AZ) | Arielle Zionts Nogales Internatonal

B rent B owdon, a well-known Patagonia resident and businessman, was shot and killed by police in
B rent B owdon
Lake Havasu City after they responded to an apparent domestic disturbance.

Officers from the Lake Havasu City Police Department were dispatched to a local home around
2:51 a.m. Wednesday in response to an open 911 call in which a man and woman could be heard
screaming at each other, according to a news release by the Kingman Police Department, which is
investigating the shooting.

T hree police officers made contact with Bowdon, 56, and "discharged their weapons," according to
the release. Bowdon was pronounced dead on the scene around 3:19 a.m. His wife, who was also
at the scene, was reportedly unharmed.

T he officers, who were not injured, are now on administrative leave, according to the release. T he
names of the officers have not yet been released, according to the Today's News-Herald, a Lake
Havasu City-based sister paper to the Nogales International.

Robert Norfolk, who lives on Rainbow Lane where the shooting took place, told the News-Herald
that he heard the incident from his bedroom widow.

"It seemed like a domestic disturbance," Norfolk said. "T he cops showed up and a woman walked
toward them. T hen a man started walking toward them … the police kept telling him, 'Put the gun
down', 'Show us your hands'. He refused and kept approaching."

Lake Havasu City police have killed eight people in the past 14 years, the News-Herald reported. In
the past 10 years, no officer has been found to have wrongfully applied deadly force.

Bowdon was the president of the Patagonia Regional Business Coalition, a group that promotes
local businesses, said PRBC member Gerry Isaac.

"I would describe him as a person who was very devoted to Patagonia, very devoted to the welfare
of Patagonia," Isaac said.

Bowdon owned the DMB RV Ranch, an RV park that serves Arizona Mining workers/contractors
and other visitors to the area. His earthmoving company D&M Excavating was a contractor with
Arizona Mining before he sold the business to Rummel Construction, a Scottsdale-based company
that now contracts with the mine, Isaac said.

"I think everyone is really shocked and doesn't really know what to make of it," Isaac said of the
town's reaction to Bowdon's death.

Copyrig ht © 2018 Nog ales International. All rights reserved.

 