
 
WEST FARGO Authorities have identified the man fatally shot by members of the Red River Valley SWAT Team

during a Monday night standoff as Justin Lee Dietrich, a 32-year-old Fargo native who had a criminal history and

was suspected of possessing stolen handguns. 

West Fargo Police Chief Heith Janke said the incident began about 8:30 p.m. Monday when a West Fargo officer

tried to pull over Dietrich. However, the attempted traffic stop turned into a high-speed chase through the city,

Janke said. 

the vehicle. 

Dietrich rammed a West Fargo police vehicle during the pursuit, and he eventually stopped in the 1000 block of

11th Street West. There, he holed up in his pickup truck, and Janke said authorities believed there were weapons in

At 10 p.m., the SWAT team took over negotiations with Dietrich. At 10:37 p.m., he got out of his truck, "refused to

follow commands, and posed an imminent deadly threat to the SWAT operators. Four SWAT operators fired at the

suspect," according to a joint news release from Fargo and West Fargo officials. 

Dietrich was taken by ambulance to Sanford Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead. 

It remains unclear why the officers saw Dietrich as "an imminent deadly threat." West Fargo spokeswoman Melissa

Richard said she could not confirm whether weapons were found in Dietrich's vehicle or whether he was armed

when he was shot. Moorhead police and a representative of the North Dakota Bureau of Criminal Investigation

directed all inquires about the shooting to West Fargo officials. 

Two of the SWAT team members who fired at Dietrich were identified as Sgts. Shane Aberle and Troy Hannig of the

Fargo Police Department, according to North Dakota officials. 

Aberle has been with the Fargo Police Department for 15 years. 

Hannig has been with the Fargo Police Department for 10 years, and became a sergeant in January 2017. 

The Moorhead Police Department identified the two Minnesota-based SWAT team members who fired at Dietrich

as Moorhead Officer Brandon Desautel and Clay County Deputy Kyle Diekmann. 

All four officers are on standard paid administrative leave. The North Dakota Bureau of Criminal Investigation is

investigating the shooting. 

CREDIT: Wendy Reuer Forum News Service 
 
 
