
 
Jan. 17--BEMIDJI -- The Beltrami County Attorney's Office is reviewing the officer-involved fatal shooting of Vernon

May after having received most of the evidence from the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension. 

The BCA began investigating right after the shooting on Nov. 28 in Bemidji. It then forwarded much of the

investigation over to the Beltrami County Attorney's Office in December. Although the BCA has yet to officially

close its portion of the investigation, Beltrami County Attorney David Hanson said he has received all pertinent

information needed for his office to go forward with the case. 

"I'm actively reviewing it," Hanson said. 

However, Hanson couldn't say how long it would take to review the information and determine if any charges are

warranted. 

in May's death. 

May, 34, of Red Lake, died late on Nov. 28 after a Bemidji police officer initiated a traffic stop near the intersection

of Ridgeway Avenue NW and 30th Street, near the Paul Bunyan Mall. A Beltrami County Sheriff's deputy arrived on

scene shortly after the stop was made. 

May, who was in the back seat, was asked to get out of the vehicle since he had a felony-level warrant. The officer

and deputy saw that May had a gun, and the officer, Bidal Duran, began struggling with May for control of the

weapon. Sometime after that, both Duran and the deputy, Brandon Newhouse, fired their weapons, which resulted

Both Duran and Newhouse were placed on administrative leave after the shooting took place. Newhouse then

returned to work Dec. 19. As of Wednesday, Duran remained on administrative leave. 

The shooting has caused substantial unrest within the Native American community, which has called for more

clarity regarding what happened during the traffic stop. Because of that, Police Chief Mike Mastin issued a

statement Dec. 14, indicating that the footage from Duran's body camera eventually would be made public. 

The officer-involved shooting in Bemidji is only one of a handful that have taken place in northern Minnesota over

the past few months. One took place in Virginia, Minn., just a day before the Bemidji Incident. That case is a little

farther along than its Bemidji counterpart, as St. Louis County Attorney Mark Rubin announced last week that the

officer was justified in the shooting. Another officer-involved shooting took place in Duluth this past weekend, on

Sunday, Jan. 13. 

CREDIT: By Jordan Shearer 
 
 
