
 
Dec. 07--BEMIDJI -- Although more than a week has passed, not much is known about the officer-involved shooting

of Vernon May. 

Within two days of the Nov. 28 shooting, the Bureau of Criminal Apprehension released the names of May, as well

as the Bemidji Police officer and the Beltrami County Sheriff's deputy involved in the incident. Other than that, the

agency hasn't released any new information about the shooting, which has garnered substantial speculation

throughout the community. 

There also is no indication how long the investigation may take. 

"The time required to conduct a thorough and complete investigation varies depending on many factors, so there is

no set timetable," said Jill Oliveira of the BCA, which is the agency investigating the incident. 

However, Oliveira did give brief insight into the general methodology of the investigation. She said agents will

interview any witnesses as well as those involved in the situation. Further, she said investigators will "collect,

analyze and review" evidence related to the incident, including any body and vehicle camera footage. 

Because of the ongoing investigation, the agency has been quiet about any pertinent details, such as what initiated

the traffic stop or how many rounds were fired. 

According to the original press release about the shooting, both the police officer, Bidal Duran, and the deputy,

Brandon Newhouse, were placed on administrative leave following the shooting, which is standard procedure.

Duran has been with the department for nearly six years. Newhouse has been with the Sheriff's Office for two

years. 

Once the investigation is complete, Oliveira said the BCA will turn its findings over to the county attorney of

jurisdiction, which is the Beltrami County Attorney's Office. 

Although acting as the investigating agency, the BCA doesn't "determine the outcome of a case," Oliveira said. 

Once the investigation is complete, "most investigative data" will be made public, Oliveira said. 

May, 34, of Red Lake, died late on Nov. 28 during the traffic stop at the intersection of Ridgeway Avenue NW and

30th St. NW, which is near the Paul Bunyan Mall. 

According to law enforcement officials, Duran initiated the traffic stop, and Newhouse arrived shortly thereafter.

May, who was in the back seat of the vehicle, was asked to get out since he had a felony warrant. Both Duran and

Newhouse noticed May had a handgun, and Duran and May subsequently began to struggle for control of the

weapon, according to the press release. Sometime after that, both Duran and Newhouse fired their weapons, which

resulted in May's death. 

The funeral for May was held Thursday in Red Lake. 

CREDIT: By Jordan Shearer 
 
 
