Officials ID man killed in confrontation with - Bucks County Courier
Times (Levittown, PA) - March 6, 2018 - page A3
March 6, 2018 | Bucks County Courier Times (Levittown, PA) | Article | Page A3

Officials ID man killed in confrontation with Bristol Township police

Officials ID man killed in confrontation with Bristol Township police

BRIST OL TOWNSHIP — County officials have released the name of the man shot and killed by
police Friday in Bristol T ownship.

Jose Gomez Burg os
Jose Gomez Burg os , 29, of Bronx, New York, was shot around 12:15 p.m. on Edgely Road and
taken to Jefferson T orresdale Hospital, where he was pronounced dead, according to the County
District Attorney's Office.

Officials say Bristol Township police responded to a report of a vehicle with New York plates that
had been sitting on the roadside for an extended period of time. Burgos allegedly was sitting in the
vehicle and then confronted police with an unspecified weapon; police fired multiple gunshots,
striking Burgos.

Officials said New York police had been searching for Burgos in connection with a stabbing
involving serious but non-fatal injuries.

County Detectives are continuing to investigate the circumstances of the shooting, including a
standard-procedure review of whether police were justified in their use of deadly force.

T revose firefighter injured by fall

LOWER SOUT HAMPT ON — A firefighter was injured when he fell through a second-story floor
while responding to a house fire early Monday morning.

T im Pristatskiy, a member of the T revose Fire Co., was briefly hospitalized after he suffered minor
injuries as a result of the fall, according to Chief Ed Frydlewicz.

Fire crews arrived at the home on Henry Avenue in Lower Southampton shortly after 2:30 a.m. to
find heavy fire in the attic and roof area, Frydlewicz said. T he chief said Pristatskiy entered the
home to look for anyone trapped inside when the floor gave out underneath him.

“It just so happened another crew from the Feasterville Fire Co. had forced entry into the rear, saw
him, called a mayday and got him out right away,” he added.

Pristatskiy, who also volunteers as an EMT  with several area emergency squads, was taken to St.
Mary Medical Center in Middletown to be checked for loss of breath but has since been released,

Officials later determined the house was unoccupied at the time of the fire and the cause is under
investigation by the Lower Southampton Fire Marshal’s Office.

said the chief.

Staff reports

© Copyrig ht 2018 Bucks County Courier Times, All Rights Reserved.

 