Officials: Gunman took aim at police - Video - Times, The (Trenton, NJ) -
April 10, 2018 - page A1
April 10, 2018 | Times, The (Trenton, NJ) | Alex Napoliello | Page A1

princeton

A man armed with a BB gun who was killed by police inside a Panera Bread restaurant last month
raised his gun and pointed it in the direction of the officers before he was fatally shot in the head
and upper torso.

T he state Attorney General’s Office made the assertion in text edited over a copy of the
surveillance video footage from inside the restaurant in Princeton.

T he five-minute video shows a split screen of two different vantage points from inside the
restaurant. One vantage point is from behind an officer, who is clad in black tactical gear and is
pointing an M4 rifle at Scott M ielentz
Scott Mielentz , who is seen holding a handgun at his waist. T he other
angle is a side view of Mielentz.

Mielentz, 56, was shot after he kept authorities at bay for five hours in the afternoon on March 21.
Customers and employees were able to escape the building, and no one else was injured during the
incident.

T he shooting remains under investigation by the Attorney General’s Office’s Shooting Response
T eam. T he office released the video footage, along with 911 calls and CAD reports, in response to
requests under the state’s Open Public

Records Act and common law.

T he video released by the Attorney General’s Office starts with a 911 call from a patron inside the
restaurant, who tells a dispatcher that “T here’s a guy with a gun at Panera.”

Police descended on the Nassau Street location, a block from Princeton University’s Nassau Hall,
around 10 a.m.

Police negotiators spent several hours trying without success to convince Mielentz to “surrender
peacefully,” according to a statement from the Attorney General’s Office.

He was pronounced dead inside the restaurant shortly before 3 p.m.

T he footage released by the attorney general doesn’t have audio, so the negotiating tactics used
by police cannot be heard.

T he video shows Mielentz holding a black gun by his waist but pointing it at officers. Authorities

later determined the gun was a Crosman PFM BB gun.

Around the 3½-minute mark in the video, authorities say, Mielentz raises the gun and points it at
the officers.

An officer crouched behind a trash basket can be seen firing his M4 rifle at Mielentz.

Several other officers, who are also decked out in tactical gear with protective shields, can be seen
rushing over to Mielentz as he lay motionless on the ground.

Mielentz was a self-described “loner” who suffered from hallucinations, anxiety and depression
after a stint in the U.S. Army, according to information found in public records.

Alex Napoliello, NJ Advance Media, anapoliello @njadvancemedia.com

Copyrig ht, 2018, The Times, Trenton N.J. All Rights Reserved.

 