The Latest: 911 call describes attack by man shot - Associated Press State
Wire: Ohio (OH) - May 6, 2018
May 6, 2018 | Associated Press State Wire: Ohio (OH)

KET T ERING, Ohio (AP) — T he Latest on an Ohio police officer's fatal shooting of a suspect (all
times local):

Police have released 911 audio in which a neighbor describes a violent encounter between a
woman and a suspect who was fatally shot by an Ohio officer on Saturday.

T he female neighbor tells a Kettering police dispatcher that the woman is "screaming very loudly,"
crying for help and begging the man to stop hurting her. She says she hears the woman telling the
man that he broke her nose and what sounds like him trying to hold her face under a pillow.

T he department released the audio on its Facebook page on Sunday.

Kettering Police Chief Christopher Protsman says his officer encountered 24-year-old M itchell
M itchell
Simmons  while responding to the call and both discharged their weapons. Simmons died at the
Simmons
scene.

It is Kettering's second fatal shooting of a suspect by an officer in a year.

Police are investigating an Ohio suburban community's second fatal shooting of a suspect by an
officer in a year.

Kettering Police Chief Christopher Protsman said Sunday that police were responding to a report
of a "violent confrontation" at an apartment complex around 11 p.m. Saturday when the suspect
and an officer both discharged their firearms.

M itchell Simmons .
T he Montgomery County Coroner's Office identified the victim as 24-year-old Mitchell Simmons
He died at the scene. T he officer was not injured, and his name was not released.

In December, a grand jury declined to indict Kettering Officer Jonathon McCoy in the fatal shooting
of an armed man during a traffic stop. McCoy shot 33-year-old Jason Hoops on August 27 after
authorities say Hoops refused repeated orders to put his hands on the vehicle's dash.

4 p.m.

___

11:45 a.m.

___

11:20 a.m.

Police are investigating an Ohio suburban community's second fatal shooting of a suspect by an
officer in a year.

Kettering Police Lt. Michael Gabrielson says police were responding to a suspicious-person report
at an apartment complex in the Dayton suburb at 11:10 p.m. Saturday. T he officer entered the
building and a short while later reported shots fired.

T he Montgomery County Coroner's Office on Sunday identified the man who died as 24-year-old
M itchell Simmons . T he officer was not injured.
M itchell Simmons

In December, a grand jury declined to indict Officer Jonathon McCoy in the fatal shooting of an
armed man during a traffic stop. McCoy shot 33-year-old Jason Hoops on August 27 after
authorities say Hoops refused repeated orders to put his hands on the vehicle's dash.

Copyrig ht © The Associated Press 2018 All rights reserved.

 