New details emerge on Kettering man in fatal - Dayton Daily News (OH)
- May 8, 2018
May 8, 2018 | Dayton Daily News (OH) | Wayne Baker

KET T ERING —

Police released more information on Mitchell Simmons
responding Saturday night to a report of domestic violence in the Chatham Village Apartment
complex.

M itchell Simmons , 24, who was shot and killed by an officer

Simmons was employed by Wright-Patt Credit Union at the time of his death, according to a police
report released Monday afternoon.

Kettering police shooting: Officers tried to revive man at scene, neighbor says

Simmons also was an Ohio University graduate, according to the Registrar's Office in Athens,
which said he received two degrees while there - an associate's degree in applied science in 2015
and a bachelor's degree in criminal justice in 2016.

Simmons graduated from Beavercreek High School in 2012, the school confirmed Monday
afternoon.

T he 24-yer-old female victim of the alleged domestic violence was taken to a local hospital for
treatment of her injuries, according to Lt. Michael Gabrielson.

"We do know the female victim did receive treatment at a local hospital, but she wasn't
transported by a medic," Gabrielson said. "T here were no injuries to the officers who responded to
the scene."

He added that the investigation is ongoing, so some details won't be released now, as the case will
get prepared to go to the prosecutor and eventually a grand jury.

T he Montgomery County Coroner's Office officially ruled Simmons' death a homicide Monday
afternoon, saying he died as a result of multiple gunshot wounds.

T he latest report released Monday afternoon revealed further details of what officers
encountered Saturday night were released.

T he officer arrived on the scene at 5114 Scarsdale Drive in the Chatham Village Apartment
complex and forced entry into an apartment after hearing what police reports say were a woman's
cries for help. Simmons was killed when the officer returned fire, police said.

Shortly after 11 p.m., "officers called to the residence by a neighbor advising of a possible male and

female fighting," the report states. "An officer arrived on scene and could hear the argument and
advised dispatch he was forcing entry into the apartment. Gunfire was exchanged and first aid
rendered. T he male, suspect of the domestic violence, was pronounced deceased."

Copyrig ht, 2018, Cox Ohio Publishing . All rights reserved.

 