Ohio police officer shoots, kills suspect - Telegraph Herald (Dubuque,
IA) - May 7, 2018 - page 7
May 7, 2018 | Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA) | The Associated Press | Page 7

COLUMBUS, Ohio - Authorities said Sunday they were reviewing a suburban Ohio community's
second fatal police shooting in a year's time after an officer shot and killed a suspect who a 911
caller described attacking a woman as she screamed.

Kettering Police Chief Christopher Protsman said the "violent confrontation" at an apartment in the
suburb of Dayton, southwest of Columbus, was reported to police just after 11 p.m. Saturday. He
said the officer entered alone and both the suspect and an officer discharged their firearms.

T he suspect who died was Mitchell Simmons
Coroner's Office said. He died at the scene. T he officer was not injured, and his name was not
released.

M itchell Simmons , 24, of Kettering, the Montgomery County

In 911 audio released by the department on its Facebook page, a concerned neighbor describes
hearing a man attacking a woman and the woman "crying a lot" and screaming for help.

"T here was a woman screaming very loudly. She was screaming 'Help me! Help me!'" she told a
dispatcher. "I can hear her and she kept saying, 'Get off! Get off! I can't breathe. You broke my
nose. My nose is bleeding and I can't breathe.'"

Protsman said the responding officer heard a woman in need of help and forced his way into the
apartment alone and encountered Simmons with a gun. He said an autopsy of Simmons was
planned.

T he fatal shooting comes less than nine months after Kettering Officer Jonathon McCoy shot and
killed Jason Hoops, 33, of Fairborn, in what began as a traffic stop.

A grand jury declined to indict McCoy in the Aug. 27 shooting in December. Authorities said McCoy
was conducting a traffic stop when he saw Hoops had a firearm. Dashcam video released later
showed McCoy warning Hoops repeatedly not to reach for a gun, before McCoy fired.

Copyrig ht (c) 2018 Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

 