Coroner rules homicide in death of man shot by - LNP (Lancaster, PA) -
May 11, 2018
May 11, 2018 | LNP (Lancaster, PA) | LINDSEY BLEST | Staff Writer

A man shot himself in the face before being fatally shot by a Manheim Township police officer
T uesday in front of the police station, according to his autopsy results.

Lancaster County Coroner Dr. Stephen Diamantoni ruled the death of 65-year-old John Simson
homicide. Diamantoni said his death was caused by a single gunshot wound to the body.

John Simson a

"He had a self-inflicted gunshot wound to his face that preceded the fatal wound fired by the police
officer," Diamantoni said.

Officials said Simson drove to the police station off Oregon Pike around 3 p.m. He was armed with
a shotgun, which fired at least twice — once at himself — and had a confrontation with a Manheim
T ownship police officer.

T he officer made repeated verbal commands and then shot Simson once in the body, according to
the Lancaster County district attorney's office.

Diamantoni declined to specify where the shot hit Simson.

"Beyond a reasonable doubt, that wound was fatal," he said.

Police have not said whether Simson was trying to provoke a lethal response from the officer.
Police also have not said where he fired the one or more other shots.

T he district attorney's office will eventually make a determination on whether or not the officer's
use of force was justified.

An East Petersburg resident, Simson became known to police at least since the end of March,
court records show.

A Manheim Township police detective received a report of child abuse at Simson's Geneva Road
home March 30, according to charging documents.

Simson admitted to his involvement April 5, and police filed six felonies regarding assault of a 9-
year-old girl May 4.

T hat day, Simson turned himself in, was arraigned by District Judge Brian Chudzik and posted
$50,000 bail.

Chudzik repeatedly said "no comment" when asked Thursday to comment on Simson's

arraignment.

All content © 2018 LNP Media Group, Inc. and may not be republished without permission.

 