UPDATE: Suspect in police shooting likely died of - Rockdale Citizen,
The (Conyers, GA) - September 4, 2018
September 4, 2018 | Rockdale Citizen, The (Conyers, GA) | From Staff Reportsnews@rockdalecitizen.com

COVINGT ON — A Covington Police officer responding to a shoplifting call at the Walmart on
Industrial Boulevard was shot and seriously wounded Monday afternoon. T he suspect in the
shooting was killed. According to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, early indications are that the
suspect died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.Officer Matt Cooper, 34, a six-year veteran of the
department and a military veteran, was taken by air ambulance to Atlanta Medical Center where he
was remained in serious condition T uesday.According to Capt. Ken Malcom, officers responded to
a shoplifting call at 12:24 p.m. where three male suspects were encountered in the shopping
center parking lot. Two were apprehended, but a third fled across Industrial Boulevard and ran
behind the Little Phillies shopping center that is adjacent to a wooded area. Two officers pursued
him, with one going around the rear of the shopping center from the east and the other from the
west. Malcom said the officer approaching from the east side heard a gunshot and found his
fellow officer wounded and unconscious.T he body of the suspect, identified as Aaron Demonta
Aaron Demonta
Fleming , 21, was found in the wooded area a short time later. He was armed with a .38
Fleming
revolver.According to police, several gunshots were fired in the incident, but it was not clear if
either officer had fired his weapon.T he investigation has been turned over to the Georgia Bureau
of Investigation.Malcom said this is the first time an officer has been wounded in the line of duty
since he joined the force 33 years ago."Please pray for the police and pray for our officer who is
fighting for his life," said Malcom.T he names of the suspects have not been been released.
Malcom described all three as young males."T here is no such thing as a routine call," said Malcom.
"As officers we are trained to believe that."T he shootings shattered what was otherwise a quiet
Labor Day afternoon. T he stores in the shopping center where the shootings occurred were
closed, and Malcom said he did not believe the public had been placed at risk.A large contingent of
law enforcement officers gathered in the Walmart parking lot as the investigation continued. A
man driving through the area about two hours after the incident asked what happened."T his sort
of thing didn't use to happen around Covington," he said. "T his is crazy."Cooper joined the
Covington Police Department in 2012 and was named Rookie of the Year in 2013.Cooper was in
the Army for eight years and was his battalion's senior sniper with two deployments to both Iraq
and Afghanistan.When he returned home, he worked for two years as an emergency medical
technician with Newton Medical Center."When I came back, I just wanted to help people out,"
Cooper said in a 2013 interview.As a result of his work as an EMT , he got to know several
members of the Police Department, who suggested he join the force."I wanted to be in law
enforcement because I simply wanted to help people who were in need," Cooper said. "In EMT  and
the Police Academy, we were taught to be a servant of the public, and I try to be that."Law
enforcement is part of Cooper's heritage. Cooper's father retired from law enforcement with the
Georgia Department of Natural Resources and later worked with the Newton County Sheriff's
Office at the courthouse.Cooper said joining the Police Department was "an homage to his
(father's) service in law enforcement."T he Citizen will continue to update this story as more news
becomes available.

Copyrig ht 2018, Rockdale Citizen, All Rights Reserved.

 