Pueblo DA: Officer justified in fatal shooting - Pueblo Chieftain, The
(CO) - February 14, 2019 - page A1
February 14, 2019 | Pueblo Chieftain, The (CO) | Ryan Severance The Pueblo Chieftain | Article | Page A1

T he 10th Judicial District Attorney’s Office has ruled that an officer was justified in shooting and
killing a man who stabbed his uncle last summer in the Bessemer area.

On July 4 around 3:45 p.m., officer Jordan Roberts of the Pueblo Police Department responded to
the backyard of a home on the 1200 block of East Abriendo Avenue on a report of a stabbing in
progress.

As Roberts arrived, he was guided by individuals at the scene to the location of two men identified
as Emmanuel B itsuie

Emmanuel B itsuie, 32, and his uncle David Bitsuie, 52.

According to the Critical Incident Team decision letter written by District Attorney Jeff Chostner, as
Roberts approached the men in the backyard of the East Abriendo home, he noticed that
Emmanuel Bitsuie was on top of David Bitsuie and had a shiny object in his hand.
Emmanuel B itsuie

Roberts noticed Emmanuel B itsuie
Bitsuie was being stabbed, Roberts fired his gun and shot Emmanuel B itsuie
after he reportedly refused to acknowledge Roberts’ commands for him to get on the ground.

Emmanuel Bitsuie move his arm in a downward motion and, knowing that David
Emmanuel Bitsuie three to four times

Emmanuel Bitsuie was pronounced dead at the scene, while David Bitsuie was taken to a local
Emmanuel B itsuie
hospital where he later died from his wounds.

“Based on the facts of the investigation conducted by CIT  investigators, the use of deadly force by
officer Jordan Roberts appears to be justified based on the fear and threat of serious bodily injury
or death posed to David Bitsuie by Emmanuel B itsuie
knife,” Chostner wrote in the decision letter. “T here is no evidence or facts collected to support any
criminal wrongdoing by officer Roberts during the incident... Given the facts and circumstances of
the situation and the governing law, criminal charges against officer Jordan Roberts would not be
appropriate, and therefore no criminal charges will be filed.”

Emmanuel Bitsuie as he repeatedly stabbed David with a

rseverance@chieftain.com

T witter: @RyanS_Chieftain

Copyrig ht, 2019, Pueblo Chieftain, The, All Rights Reserved.

 